name        : Izumi Katsuragi
kanji       : 桂城 泉
color       : #1ebecd
mbti        : ENFJ (8), ENTJ (1)

(idol.st)

desc 1:
A second year at Hasunosora Girls’ High. Transferred schools in the 105th Term. A girl with great potential that excels at everything. She became a school idol after getting scouted by Ceras. She loves seeing people working hard towards their dreams and can’t help but get involved.

background:
She attended schools in Tokyo, and has many accomplishments to her name, including: an award for acting, first place in a national fencing competition, and first place in a programming competition.

She met Ceras on a rainy day outside of Izumi's school grounds, located in Tokyo. Ceras confided in her that her school was closing, and that she needed to win Love Live! to save it. Izumi almost instantly agreed to help, offering to transfer schools just to win for her. In return for this, Ceras agreed to give her "everything".

To hone her skills, she entered several competitions in as little time as she could, cummulating in about 20 performances in only nine months. She won every single one, but claims they were all narrow victories.

She first met the 104th Class at the park and gives them advice on why they aren't synching up correctly.

personality:
Izumi is a skilled dancer, who is much younger than her looks and maturity would make her seem. Although this is partly due to her referring to herself as "onee-san" even among girls who are the same age. She's very perceptive when it comes to performances and can instantly tell where someone is lacking. She is a tenacious girl with a lot of self-confidence, and takes her duty to win very seriously, even going so far as to say that her entire reason for living is to make Ceras's dream come true. She says this is because she loves people who chase their dreams.

Despite only just joining the school idol club, she is extremely talented at what she does, tearing through the competition despite being the youngest one there. However, she doesn't actually take any pleasure in winning herself.

(wiki japan)
104期時点では長野県にある瑞河女子高等学校[注釈 14]のスクールアイドル部所属のスクールアイドルであり、ソロユニット「Edel Note」として活動していた。瑞河が廃校となったため、105期に蓮ノ空女学院に転入し、セラスとともにスクールアイドルクラブ所属となっている。
同学年の吟子たちから年上と勘違いされるほど、大人っぽい雰囲気を持つ。個人的な夢や目標を持たず、他人の夢を叶える協力をすることで、その者の熱意などを自分のもののように感じることができる。そのため、「他人に協力する」ことが大事なのであり、スクールアイドルやラブライブ!が好きなわけではない。知らないダンサーたちと初めて会ったにもかかわらず即興で息の合ったパフォーマンスをするなど、ダンサーとしての力量は高い。他にも複数のジャンルで優秀な成績を修めているマルチタレント。
元々は東京で俳優として活動していたが、当時パートナーであった先輩が病にかかっており、治療に専念させるために俳優を断念する。その後、他人の夢を叶えることを繰り返した後、瑞河をラブライブ!で優勝させたいセラスにスカウトされ、瑞河に入学した。セラスからスクールアイドルのいろはを指南され、スクコネで3か月連続でMVPを獲得し、今年度の優勝候補と評されていた。ラブライブ!県予選前に吟子たち104期生が街中の公園で出会った際に、先輩たちとの力量差に悩んでいた吟子たちにアドバイスを送る。ラブライブ!には「Edel Note」としてソロで挑戦し、中部大会を突破。決勝大会にて蓮ノ空と同率1位となり、その後のプレーオフではセラスと2人組ユニットとなって挑戦するも敗退する。
105期に蓮ノ空女学院へ編入し、セラスと同時にクラブへ入部。当初は、梢がいなくなった穴を埋める形で協力するためにスリーズブーケに入ろうとするが、セラスの要望により、Edel Noteを期間限定で再結成することになる。当初はスクールアイドルに対する情熱を持てない心が空っぽの状態であったが、セラスの努力もありスクールアイドルへの情熱を持つようになった。

(personality-database.com opinion)

A: After watching the ABYSS and LIGHT Izumi focus episodes (which I recommend watching if you already have an idea of who Izumi is here with Eng translation: https://youtu.be/GIWQvpR42sM), it might firstly be easily mistaken at how Izumi's "emptiness" and "intense wish to complete another's dream as if it is truly her own" similarly to a Sexual 5 or Social 4, however, we have to keep in mind how Social 7 acts similarly and has a hidden envy as well...just that it is not apparent due to how it is almost always hidden by its intolerance to frustration, similarly to how despite Izumi being stuck in the "Abyss" for years on end, she never complained nor succumbed to her envy...or even recognizes it. If she were an E4, even the countertype Self-Preservation 4, she would've at least noticed her emotional suffering and envy subconsciously, but she never does. She acknowledges happiness and sadness all the same, and moved on with helping and creating "contracts" to several girls in need without thinking much of her experience with the previous one.

Because she runs away from her pain, to avoid feeling "empty" without a dream again. An escapism coping technique towards pain, mostly associated by E7s, instead of how E5s might instead try to "dispose" of their feelings by numbing them down and intellectualizing them, whilst she just turns a blind eye towards them. Izumi instead seeks that "indulgent" feeling she gets from helping out and seeing another girl reach her dreams, claiming to "use" them for her own indulgence because she lacks one and never really felt a connection towards the other person while also feeling guilty about said indulgence just for the sake of "receiving" that passion from someone else's dream. Sounds familiar?

"At the most neurotic levels, the noble gesture of giving contains the desire to receive something in return. In this case, you want an image. I give you, you give me back an image, a feeling. He likes the other to feel pleasure, well-being, fluidity, and thus arouse his admiration. A subtle and robust admiration, a look that says it all, that tells him that he is everything.” - Passion in the Sphere of Instinct: Social 7 description (https://wiki.personality-database.com/books/enneagram/page/social-7-in-detail)

"To chase a dream. That is a beautiful and noble sight. Even if the dream is filled with selfish desire, to me it still shines brilliantly. All the students at Hasunosora are aiming for something, stretching their hands with all their might. It makes the whole world seem painted in color. And I can’t help but feel envious of that. The joy and sorrow smoldering within me, the ashes left in my chest... I’ll embrace them all as I sing. “Dream Believers, You believe”, how powerful, how passionate those lyrics are. If school idols are the very shape of wishes born from the resonance of girls’ dreams intertwining, then perhaps, one day, I too... It wouldn’t be wrong of me to wish for that, would it?" - Dream Believers Idolization Line 2 Fan Translation (https://ginkle.top/card/1051501/)

Social 7's Envious and Intolerance to Frustration Trait Structure (https://wiki.personality-database.com/books/enneagram/page/social-7-in-detail): "It is as if deep down there was an unacceptability of the present moment, which is structured from the compulsive desire to relive the excitement of vain drunkenness. It is a feeling of power that you feel when the passion of social sacrifice is realized: A very strong energetic charge suddenly gives you a deep sense of identity that, as if by magic, cleanses the weak and fragile parts, and the feeling of pain.

He lives like this, in fantasy, as if the ideal of life had been realized. When contrasted with reality, frustration comes inevitably. Unlike the E4, which tends to self-frustrate to maintain constant pain and sadness, the social E7 avoids frustration through a constant of pleasure where it ends up entering a destructive spiral in which it challenges life."

I'm still accepting any arguments for her Tritype tho since I'm confused on whether her heart type would be 3 (masking of negativity and professional performance) or 4 (actual envy and melancholy outside of all that, especially her cover solo song "Gekkou"'s lyrics: https://ko-fi.com/Blog/Post/%5BEARLY-ACCESS%5D-Onitsuka-Chihiro-Lyrics-Gekkou-%E6%9C%88%E5%85%89-R5R712CQH?justpublished=true), so feel free to argue if you'd like, I love talking about Izumi ^^

Update 24/04/2025: I may be reading too much into things but her lack of dream (perhaps emotional inertia? Due to how she's just doing things as they appear to be) yet yearning to feel the passion of chasing dreams herself...merging her desires to others' to the point where they feel like like her own...sounds a lot like Sx9 tbh

She seems too confrontational and doesn't exhibit the "meekness" of Sx9 tho so I'm not sure, for now I still stand by So7 just because of her internalized gluttony and how despite everything, she still feels guilty of "using" others' dreams as a means to finding her own passion. She plays the knight in shining armor but she's always craving for more, which is why she holds back her indulgence. However, that was before she met Ceras, someone who has so many dreams and isn't afraid to admit and work hard for them. No holding back indulgence, and Ceras instructs Izumi to do just that by making sure Izumi enjoys her time as an idol, even when initially under the guise of a "contract" (a.k.a her So7-esque way of holding back her indulgence over "using" others dreams by making it transactional and limited in time, also very head triad-esque of her to plan it that way)

I think this thread compares and contrasts the pride in servitude of So2 Kozue (who feels seen only through her efforts of covering for others' dreams) vs the gluttony in servitude of So7? Izumi (who gains satisfaction through "using" others' dreams as her own) well in my opinion https://x.com/hakuginfuyu/status/1914531061649887533

Update: Based on translated summaries I read online, she reads as an idealistic So7 to me so far with her goal of wanting to represent others' dreams by reaching them for them herself so that those dreams come true in a way.

Also considering Sp3 but I'm still not convinced if she's an image type and driven to be secure in her resources? I can totally see her achievement-driven and humble repression of vanity (also being a reference person as well in the way she gives others an almost forceful advice), though, so I can also see why it's fighting to be the consensus.

For anyone who voted her as such, if you're comfortable with sharing your perspective, I'd really love to hear your thoughts! Especially if you could offer response on why Sp3 > So7, since I still see more of the self-sacrificing gluttony in the way she **gains personal satisfaction** from fulfilling others' dreams and experiencing (while also excelling in) many things in the process out of pure curiosity and that aforementioned satisfaction which seems more self-indulgent than she makes it seems (as described by Ceras that expressing dreams to her is like dealing wishes with the Devil, which doesn't sound like Sp3's Helpful Compulsion trait structure listed here: https://wiki.personality-database.com/books/enneagram/page/self-preservation-3-in-detail)

Has that self-sacrificing gluttony and high curiosity as well but feel free to correct me if I'm wrong about anything. At first I considered So2 as well but she doesn't seem to relate to the "love need" and image-driven goal of an So2.

E1 was also a possibility at first due to her bluntly perfectionistic and idealistic nature almost similar to SIFAS Shioriko's though she seems to still be open to new ideas. She didn't force the Hasunosora girls to quit being idols because of their lack of natural skill in that department like Shioriko did in S1 of SIFAS, though she does give quite the harsh criticism she's still open to the idea of them being idols but *not* in the idea of them winning Love Live and representing idols as a whole with their currently lacking and yet to be sharpened skills.


-- Ignore this part below, her dom Fe is clear as day with how she analyzes others based on objective emotional metrics so well --
For now, I'm gonna type her as an ENTP as well based on her curious and internal logic-driven nature, and how it makes sense with So7 as well. While I considered ENFJ or ENTJ with her more visionary and goal-driven attitude at first, she's so far very interested in "sampling" whatever ways are possible to reach those goals rather than sticking to a plan on how to win the tournaments based on her observations towards the Hasunosora girls and how open she is to admiring them though giving criticism whenever she finds necessary, rather than say Lanzhu who immediately dismisses Yu's way of leading the club by heart instead of by efficiency.


[Original Comment]
Have no clue what her type is but her blind devotion towards Seras leads me to believe that she has a 6 in her tritype somewhere. The small scenes I could see of her with my limited Japanese knowledge (I can't find the translated episodes for the recent chapters) also sees Ti-Fe axis in her with her quite unique perspective and also drive to win Love Live not for external benefits but to accomplish Seras' dream in her stead, which makes her eccentricities clash with the more traditional Te aux Ginko.

(Edit: actually, also considering SP4 fix > SO4 fix but I think it doesn't matter much since her heart fix's basically E4 no matter the subtype

https://www.personality-database.com/comment/11913684?profileID=344796

According to Claudio Naranjo:

"𝐓𝐡𝐞 𝐭𝐞𝐧𝐚𝐜𝐢𝐨𝐮𝐬 𝐅𝐨𝐮𝐫 𝐜𝐚𝐧 𝐞𝐱𝐩𝐞𝐫𝐢𝐞𝐧𝐜𝐞 𝐠𝐫𝐞𝐚𝐭 𝐚𝐧𝐠𝐮𝐢𝐬𝐡 𝐰𝐡𝐞𝐧 𝐬𝐨𝐦𝐞𝐨𝐧𝐞 𝐨𝐟𝐟𝐞𝐫𝐬 𝐬𝐢𝐧𝐜𝐞𝐫𝐞 𝐥𝐨𝐯𝐞, 𝐚𝐬 𝐢𝐭 𝐚𝐰𝐚𝐤𝐞𝐧𝐬 𝐭𝐡𝐞 𝐟𝐞𝐚𝐫 𝐨𝐟 𝐝𝐞𝐩𝐞𝐧𝐝𝐞𝐧𝐜𝐞. 𝐃𝐞𝐧𝐢𝐚𝐥 𝐚𝐧𝐝 𝐬𝐮𝐛𝐦𝐢𝐬𝐬𝐢𝐨𝐧. 𝐖𝐡𝐚𝐭 𝐡𝐚𝐩𝐩𝐞𝐧𝐬 𝐢𝐟 𝐈 𝐠𝐢𝐯𝐞 𝐦𝐲𝐬𝐞𝐥𝐟 𝐮𝐩 𝐚𝐧𝐝 𝐭𝐡𝐞 𝐨𝐭𝐡𝐞𝐫 𝐥𝐞𝐚𝐯𝐞𝐬 𝐦𝐞? 𝐘𝐨𝐮 𝐟𝐞𝐞𝐥 𝐮𝐧𝐰𝐨𝐫𝐭𝐡𝐲 𝐨𝐟 𝐥𝐨𝐯𝐞 𝐝𝐮𝐞 𝐭𝐨 𝐲𝐨𝐮𝐫 𝐥𝐨𝐰 𝐬𝐞𝐥𝐟-𝐞𝐬𝐭𝐞𝐞𝐦 𝐚𝐧𝐝 𝐜𝐚𝐧𝐧𝐨𝐭 𝐛𝐞 𝐭𝐫𝐮𝐬𝐭𝐞𝐝;

𝐇𝐞 𝐩𝐫𝐨𝐣𝐞𝐜𝐭𝐬 𝐡𝐢𝐬 𝐝𝐢𝐬𝐭𝐫𝐮𝐬𝐭 𝐨𝐧 𝐭𝐡𝐞 𝐨𝐭𝐡𝐞𝐫. 𝐎𝐧 𝐭𝐡𝐞 𝐨𝐭𝐡𝐞𝐫 𝐡𝐚𝐧𝐝, 𝐢𝐟 𝐭𝐡𝐞𝐲 𝐠𝐢𝐯𝐞 𝐡𝐢𝐦 𝐚 𝐥𝐨𝐭, 𝐡𝐞 𝐟𝐞𝐞𝐥𝐬 𝐭𝐫𝐚𝐩𝐩𝐞𝐝 𝐥𝐢𝐤𝐞 𝐢𝐧 𝐚 𝐬𝐩𝐢𝐝𝐞𝐫 𝐰𝐞𝐛 𝐚𝐧𝐝 𝐭𝐡𝐚𝐭 𝐰𝐨𝐫𝐫𝐢𝐞𝐬 𝐡𝐢𝐦. 𝐌𝐚𝐧𝐲 𝐨𝐯𝐞𝐫𝐟𝐥𝐨𝐰 𝐚𝐧𝐝 𝐝𝐨 𝐧𝐨𝐭 𝐤𝐧𝐨𝐰 𝐡𝐨𝐰 𝐭𝐨 𝐫𝐞𝐜𝐞𝐢𝐯𝐞 𝐩𝐥𝐞𝐚𝐬𝐚𝐧𝐭 𝐭𝐡𝐢𝐧𝐠𝐬, 𝐭𝐡𝐞𝐲 𝐝𝐨 𝐧𝐨𝐭 𝐤𝐧𝐨𝐰 𝐡𝐨𝐰 𝐭𝐨 𝐡𝐚𝐧𝐝𝐥𝐞 𝐢𝐭. 𝐓𝐡𝐞 𝐟𝐞𝐚𝐫 𝐨𝐟 𝐜𝐨𝐦𝐦𝐢𝐭𝐦𝐞𝐧𝐭 𝐚𝐫𝐢𝐬𝐞𝐬, 𝐨𝐟 𝐥𝐨𝐬𝐢𝐧𝐠 𝐢𝐧𝐝𝐢𝐯𝐢𝐝𝐮𝐚𝐥𝐢𝐭𝐲. 𝐓𝐡𝐞𝐲 𝐝𝐨 𝐧𝐨𝐭 𝐰𝐚𝐧𝐭 𝐭𝐨 𝐛𝐞 𝐥𝐢𝐧𝐤𝐞𝐝 𝐛𝐞𝐜𝐚𝐮𝐬𝐞 𝐭𝐡𝐚𝐭 𝐠𝐞𝐧𝐞𝐫𝐚𝐭𝐞𝐬 𝐝𝐞𝐩𝐞𝐧𝐝𝐞𝐧𝐜𝐲, 𝐭𝐡𝐞𝐲 𝐟𝐞𝐚𝐫 𝐛𝐞𝐢𝐧𝐠 𝐬𝐮𝐛𝐣𝐞𝐜𝐭𝐞𝐝, 𝐥𝐨𝐬𝐢𝐧𝐠 𝐭𝐡𝐞𝐢𝐫 𝐟𝐫𝐞𝐞𝐝𝐨𝐦."

"Izumi’s talent is what separates her from others as well as what bonds her to others. She measures her relationships based on what she can and cannot give."

Izumi's contract with Ceras remains limited *especially* after discovering Ceras' fragile physical health, having the trust that she's "doomed" to only remain useful in her suffering — in her service as a "knight" and offering help thinking that she doesn't deserve help in return.)

After reading the latest activity logs, I recommend reading this analysis by @/hakuginfuyu (miles better at wording than me thank you very much) about Izumi since there are some things that made me consider an E4 (specifically SO4) heart core for Izumi:
https://cerisebouquet.dreamwidth.org/1181.html

SO4 descriptions taken from the PDB wiki: https://wiki.personality-database.com/books/enneagram/page/social-4-in-detail

"Paradoxical to Izumi’s self identification as the ‘devil’, Izumi also claims the role of the ‘knight’ — a figure that protects ‘princesses’. I believe this dual identity shows how Izumi’s desire for connection and acceptance exists in tandem with her belief that she doesn’t deserve it." - while it can be argued that this comes from the envy yet self-sacrificing nature of SO7, I feel this also fits how SO4 compares themselves.

"Like all E4, the social has a tendency to make continuous comparisons between himself and the other. He constantly worries about himself and always loses out; not infrequently he is very hard on himself and can have a punitive and contemptuous attitude towards himself." - SO4's Passion in the Sphere of Instinct

After reading the thread, I also considered how Izumi never masked her sense of inferiority and emptiness while instead playing completely into the idea that she herself is a 'devil', deserving to suffer for the sin of stealing she'd done from unsuspecting dreaming princesses. She admires people who dream but also pushes them away the moment she notices that they're only harmed from being close to someone so devilish and empty like herself. A 'black hole' talent like herself who could only push people to work too hard and 'steal' their dreams away.

While her core Enneagram is certainly not SO4, her black-and-white thinking and self-deprecation majorly fits this description:

"You can have a dual attitude towards people: although it is easy for you to idealize them, you can just as easily devalue them. The devaluation arises, paradoxically, at the moment when he gets what he wants. When he achieves the goal so desired or coveted, he loses his charm, his attractiveness and his importance, despite having seemed to him the only reason for happiness." - SO4's Passion in the Sphere of Instinct

Also, additional SO7/E7 considerations (all already explained further in my previous comment about SO7 Izumi):
"Izumi’s talent is what separates her from others as well as what bonds her to others. She measures her relationships based on what she can and cannot give." - transactional in nature

"She chooses to shoulder all of the blame, and while this can seem like a mature or noble thing to do — all of this is ultimately for Izumi’s own comfort. If she is to blame for everything, then she never has to do any uncomfortable confrontation with others. She never has to talk about her own emotion, she never has to hear specific criticisms. Izumi’s self imposed isolation isn’t for Ceras’ benefit, it's for her own." - SO7's self-indulgent gluttony as a coping mechanism for comfort

(anibase.net)

Izumi speaks in an affected, theatrical tone, often using elegant and slightly old-fashioned phrasing.

She tends to say things like "Is that so?" or "Let us do that," and her vocabulary includes refined expressions such as "How inconvenient," "Admirable," "Pleasant," and "Embarrassingly flattering."


Her trademark greetings include "Hey," "Ah," and "Good grief."

Her "Hey" became popular enough to turn into a call-and-response at the group's fifth live concert and also became a stamp in School Idol Connect.

She prefers not to use formal speech even with seniors.

She briefly adjusted her tone out of respect for Hasu no Sora's tradition-minded atmosphere, but after Kaho Hinoshita and the others told her to relax, she continued speaking casually while still addressing seniors as "Name-senpai."

She calls her peers and younger students by "Name-san."

Her first-person pronoun is "I," and her second-person pronoun is "you."

Although she appears cool and composed, she is not emotionally distant.

She describes herself as honest about her own feelings, and the story supports that claim.

Even when acknowledging differences in ability, she never acts arrogant.

She gives full effort to anyone she works with and readily praises or thanks others.

When faced with unexpected opponents, harsh situations, or bizarre club activities, she can break into loud, delighted laughter.

That playful side gives her a surprising warmth.

Her hobby of people-watching comes from her ability to infer physical and mental information from clothing, belongings, and even muscle tone.

This skill helps her understand others quickly and made it easy for her to adapt to dormitory life after transferring into a completely new environment.

At the same time, her calm superiority has left her with a sense of emptiness.

Back at Mizukawa, she had no upperclassmen, so she quietly admired the senior-junior relationships she saw at Hasu no Sora.

She also has a teasing streak.

Though she is loyal to Ceras and accepts the "princess and knight" framing of their relationship, she constantly pokes fun at her in a politely insolent way.

Izumi finds Ceras fascinating to watch.

She is also sincerely grateful to Ceras for bringing her into the world of school idols and for always doing everything she possibly can.

On the other hand, she also considers Ceras stubborn and worries about her in her own way.

Back in the Mizukawa era, she teased her by calling her "Cecchan" and jokingly answering with "Yes, Your Majesty."

She usually goes along with other characters' absurd jokes, though she can also respond with a dry, deadpan retort.

On rare occasions, she delivers full-force comedic tsukkomi-style reactions.


She is fearless when asked to perform fanservice or ridiculous bits.

She will cheerfully do self-introductions, dramatic speeches, or even impressions of her seniors.

Academically, she can rank near the top if she puts in the effort.

Despite transferring into a school with a more advanced curriculum, she still placed within the top ten on her second-year first-semester midterms.

She is also a capable artist and has shown solid drawing skill in With x MEETS.

She apparently is not ticklish.

Among sports, she especially likes team sports.

She enjoys spaces where everyone is excited together, which is also why she likes attending live shows and festivals.

She is interested in fashion as well.

That interest is reflected in the decor of her room.

Her love of gyudon is almost legendary.

She likes it with extra green onions and extra broth.

During With x MEETS, she often talks about meals from famous gyudon chains and hamburger chains.

Fans have jokingly concluded that she is deeply devoted to fast food.

At Hasu no Sora, she often goes out to eat with Ceras and the others.

According to Ceras, Izumi always includes a gyudon restaurant among the meal options, and if another place is chosen, Izumi briefly looks a little disappointed even while agreeing.


She even kept suggesting gyudon for school festival ideas and for side dishes she wanted Sayaka Murano to cook.

She also likes potato chips and bonded over that with Rurino Osawa.

One unexpected trait is that she is actually bad with horror and ghost stories.

She is the type who freezes up rather than screams.

This fear comes from a childhood trauma, and she tries to hide it.

She often made excuses to avoid horror movie nights with Ceras.

When Ceras found out, Izumi panicked badly.

Later, however, she voluntarily joined one of Ceras's horror movie viewings and ended up pale-faced while Ceras worried over her.

In one word, Izumi is versatile.

Her level across academics, athletics, the arts, and performance is extraordinarily high.

She can improvise perfectly synchronized dancing with people she has only just met.

She can also coach others, understand what they need, and give advice so precise that it transforms their performance.

At Mizukawa, despite being a brand-new first-year school idol, she won monthly MVP on School Idol Connect for three consecutive months.

As a solo school idol, she also remained undefeated through every contest leading up to the Love Live! finals.

There are areas she had to learn.

When she first appeared on With x MEETS after transferring to Hasu no Sora, she admitted she was inexperienced with talk-focused streaming because Mizukawa's broadcasts had mostly centered on practice.

She also had no experience making costumes at first and learned from Ginko Momose in the 105th term.

Even so, she picked up new skills very quickly.

She had no knowledge of first-person shooter games because she had never played them.

After studying from scratch, she became capable enough to coach beginner players in a short amount of time.

By the 105th term, she had already learned songwriting and composition to a remarkably high level after spending a year beside Ceras.

By August, the quality of the songs she created impressed even Ceras, who nearly called her a genius.

Her costume design ideas and choreography proposals are similarly polished.


At Hasu no Sora, Edel Note's songs are created collaboratively, though Ceras usually takes the lead.

Izumi is also knowledgeable in many subjects.

For the song Tenchi Reimei, she even supplied Ceras with words from mythologies around the world.

Dream and Inner Emptiness

Izumi has long treasured the experience of standing close to people who are chasing their dreams.

That is why she has spent so much of her life helping other people make those dreams come true.

At the same time, she says plainly that she has no dream of her own.

She only truly feels alive when she is supporting someone else's ambition.

Because of this, she claims to have no personal attachment to most things and can call them meaningless to her.

Once another person's dream succeeds or fails, her interest in that goal disappears almost immediately.

Her time at Mizukawa and her transfer to Hasu no Sora were both rooted in that same pattern.

She helped Ceras not because school idols were her passion, but because helping another person's dream gave her a reason to exist.

She is good at understanding what others think, but she can also be harsh.

To push someone forward, she may deliberately insult them or the things they care about.

That tendency caused Ginko to hold hostility toward her for a while after the first-year events of the 104th term.

Before all this, Izumi attended school in Tokyo and was active in theater until circumstances forced her to quit.

Her acting achievements were so strong that Hasu no Sora's drama club immediately tried to recruit her when she transferred in.

When they learned she had already joined the School Idol Club, they were devastated, though she later helped them as a guest performer from time to time alongside Ceras and DOLLCHESTRA.

The full reason behind Izumi's emptiness is revealed in ABYSS.

It traces back to a painful failed chapter from her acting career.

She joined a theater troupe in the summer of fifth grade through a connection from her parent.

There she met a rising actress three years older than her, then a second-year middle school student.

Izumi came to admire this girl as her senior.

The two advanced in the acting world together, and Izumi's natural talent brought them both strong results.

The senior doted on Izumi and called her her best partner.

Her dream, winning one of the most famous prizes in the acting industry, eventually became Izumi's dream as well.

After one or two years as partners, they achieved that goal and won the award.

Izumi was overjoyed and felt acting had become the very purpose of her life.

Then it was revealed that the senior had fallen seriously ill.

In truth, Izumi had suspected something was wrong, but she ignored the signs because of her senior's fierce devotion to her next dream.

The situation became undeniable only when the senior collapsed in front of her.

The illness was life-threatening, though it could be cured if she devoted herself to treatment and rest.

But because her career was finally taking off and a major opportunity stood right before her, the senior could not accept stepping away.

She chose to throw herself into reckless practice instead.

Izumi argued with her again and again, begging her to seek treatment.

Neither would give in.

In the end, Izumi left her side and abandoned acting, as well as the dream they had shared.

At their parting, the senior told her to find a dream of her own.

After that, ordinary daily life became unbearable.

She suffered headaches, insomnia, an inability to distinguish faces, and a gray, colorless world.

The unfulfilled dream and her senior's final words became two curses that stripped away Izumi's passion and her way of living.

She could no longer endure life alone.

One day after school, she spoke to a girl who confessed that she wanted to achieve a dream.

At that moment, color returned to Izumi's vision.

From then on, helping others fulfill their dreams became her substitute reason to live.

Yet every time she succeeded, the passion vanished again, and the fire of her own unfulfilled dream still refused to die.


Even as the public started calling her "the genius Izumi Katsuragi," she felt like a hollow ghost with nothing left.

Only when she met Ceras in front of her Tokyo school, just before transferring to Mizukawa, did she encounter someone whose desire and intensity felt truly different from anyone before.

(reddit opinions)

A: “Well, I love people who chase after their dreams, like you.” It’s time for the most skilled and calm member, Izumi!

Her first appearance was already entertaining, her zooming in as soon as Ginko pulled out her phone (she could be a ninja with that speed) and pointed out their flaw was certainly something I didn’t see it coming, and it was funny seeing how even Kosuzu and Hime were surprised, and how Izumi just barged in and talked to them with total confidence and casual language, she surely doesn’t hold back, and her attitude of talking like an older sister made her actually feel like a senpai at first, specially considering her accomplishments (she was skilled in acting, fencing and even programming, sugoi). Her design is also eye catching, literally her eyes look as ones from a cat, and that bright orange colour is beautiful, and her greyish hair is definitely fresh and unique.

She’s really perceptive, she can point off flaws in performances at a glance and even know the weakness of someone after some careful investigation, and certainly has no chill in commenting them, she knew that Hime knew everyone’s weaknesses but was purposely hiding the fact, about how Kosuzu gives up before starting or even how Ginko herself wasn’t fully trusting them, and was aware that they told each other their strengths but not their weaknesses, she is harsh on the wording, but she does it good intention either for helping them to improve (or for a more selfish purpose of getting stronger rivals). She is undeniably talented, as her solo performance of Edelied left Kaho speechless, but despite being so capable, she’s always so modest, mentioning that all her previous victories weee narrow one despite having won 20 performances, she’s seriously locked in her order of “To win”. They definitely made a good impression on me as rivals, as I stated in the previous discussion. Her management capabilities are nothing to be underestimated either, the gaming arc of the 105th year she did contribute quite a bit in the way they organised, and it just improved my view of her.

Her backstory was intriguing, how she suddenly met a girl who was so focused on saving her school and decided to help her without a second thought, her lack of dreams and desire to see other follow their dreams and tagging along with them, it’s definitely a unique trait. And speaking of traits, her self confidence is on another level, the fact that she can be so sure about her capabilities and attempts to try anything head on and succeed most of the time is impressive, like in the rock festival of the 105th year I was astonished when she just said “so we just need to win” when she was informed about the plans, girl definitely knows how to hold her ground.

Unfortunately on her relationships we still don’t know much, she has a friendly bickering relationship with Ceras, I love how in the first episode of the 105th year they were fighting but in the end they ended up sticking together, and even before that, during the 104th year and they were making preparations for the event previous to the playoffs she arranged several things for Ceras, few of them which she hated and called Izumi a demon, peak friendship. For the Hasu mini trio she did make for a good rival, and later on a reliable classmate, with the 103rd and 102nd senpais unfortunately there not much to be talking about (at least yet for the 103rd members). She definitely was enjoying herself bursting of laughter to Sayaka and her Hinoshita install shenanigans though.

Overall, she’s one of my favourite of the current lineup, behind the 三連華　(SanRenKa) trio, and probably 6th if counting the members of 102nd, I’m excited to see what will they do next with her.

On another note, I’m glad Amanesu managed to get a main role in Love Live, she achieved a big dream she’s been chasing for a long time. She’s doing a wonderful job with Izumi, and I will look forward to the next songs they have prepared for us.

I stated in the previous discussion what my favourite Edelnote songs were, so I will keep this part short.

When one journey begins, it also ends eventually, and it seems our character discussion voyage is reaching its end, thank you so much OP for this interesting idea and your dedication to it, I really enjoyed this year of discussions (I just realised we just had enough characters to cover a year worth of commenting). 今までありがとうございます.
