
name        : Chisato Arashi
kanji       : 嵐 千砂都
color       : #ff6e90 
mbti        : ESFJ(70), ESFP(20)

(idol.st)
background:
Chisato is the childhood friend of Kanon. Having an athletic spirit, she entered the school primarily to dance, but after a chance encounter with the other girls, Chisato would instead focus more on becoming a school idol. However, despite having an interest in school idols, Chisato initially didn't want to become one as she thought she was better off supporting Kanon instead. While attempting to also establish a dance club at Yuigaoka, Chisato strives to build up her physical fitness each day, often devoting mornings to long-distance running. Perhaps stemming from her love of cooking and intense fascination of round objects, Chisato works as a part-timer at a takoyaki food truck, which can be seen parked within Aoyama's "Commune" open-air food court. She became the president of the School Idol Club in her second year.

She initially belonged to Yuigaoka's music program but made the decision to transfer to the general program after deciding to join Liella!.

personality:
Chisato is very kind, sweet, loyal and supportive towards Kanon - and later all the other group members. Although she describes herself as having a friendly and congenial personality, Chisato admits that others would find her "scary" whenever she gets angry - a thought that rarely crosses her mind. She loves to converse with her friends and go shopping together. Chisato is also very well-attuned to the latest news and rumors traveling within her school, seemingly to the extent that she might one day become Yuigaoka's official gossip girl.

Chisato likes anything that is round shaped; especially Kanon's pet Manmaru, who seems to be wary around Chisato when she comes to visit.

Her catchphrase is "Wissu Wissu Wissu!", "wiisu" (うぃーっす) being an informal Japanese greeting typically used by young males.

She used to be bullied as a kid as she was meek and soft-spoken, and was defended by the more assertive Kanon.

(namu.wiki)

introduction:
Hello, hello, hello~! (Uisu— Uisu— Uisu—!)
Nice to meet you. My name is Arashi Chisato.
Actually, I enrolled in this school because I wanted to dance, but
due to various circumstances, I ended up becoming a school idol. I
did wonder if it was right for me to do this, but
now I’ve decided to put my dancing skills to use and enjoy it together with everyone.
Oh, by the way, if you don't mind, would you like to dance with me? I
have a bright personality and am very sociable. People say I look scary when I get angry, but that’s probably just your imagination.
I love going shopping with everyone or chatting with my friends.
Oh, and I’m actually pretty good at cooking.
Right now, I’m trying to start a dance club.
I usually work part-time at a takoyaki shop, which is one of my favorite foods, so come visit if you have time.
Here is your takoyaki don!

(wikipedia)
Chisato is a third-year student and Kanon's childhood friend who is training to become a professional breakdancer. She is an energetic and friendly extrovert who is also fascinated by round shaped objects and things, especially Kanon's pet, Manmaru. Chisato is also known to keep up to date on gossip and rumors that are spread around the school.

(reddit opinion)

A: Maru maru maru丸丸丸　

Chisato time!

Arashi Chisato is another of the third years who I feel like really suffered in the third season of the show. A lot of her important moments were spent being secondary to Kanon or the first years, which is a bit of a shame to see. But season 1 Chisato is really fun, and that’s enough for me.

Chisato in season one takes a very mature approach to joining school idols. Through her interactions with Kanon, we learn that she really does want to do it, but she also wants to prioritize her own dance. This might have been a bit worse had Chisato not been shown to be talented, but just like with Kanon’s voice, Superstar really makes us appreciate Chisato’s dancing skills.

I do somewhat feel that Chisato’s tension in season 1 isn’t handled super well, but it’s a good small arc before she joins Liella. Her joining the general curriculum after Liella is a big insight into her character; she really cares for her friends.

In season 2, we see Chisato start to take a much more active role in being the leader of Liella. Managing practices, getting people on board with ideas, and being the main voice for the group, even overshadowing Kanon at times. It’s pretty cool to see her take this kind of role, and I think it’s the main part of her character that isn’t mentioned as much.

But by the end of season 2, Chisato unfortunately doesn’t have much left to do. She often acts to support a lot of Kanon’s major emotional moments, but that’s about it. Some other people mentioned that they’re like to see some more of Chisato’s relationships with the second years, and I absolutely agree.

By season 3, Chisato’s main role as the leader of Liella when Kanon is gone is solidified. I don’t think she’s reliant as much on Kanon, but she trusts her to do the right thing. So she supports Kanon making her own group for a time. Speaking of, a lot of Chisato’s character moments and development happen with Kanon. The two of them have a very clear dynamic and relationship. Unlike a lot of the childhood friends in LL, they seem to be able communicate really well from the get-go.

I really appreciate how in season 2 and 3, Kanon almost always talks to Chisato first before any of the other girls when it comes to important matters. It shows how she really trusts her, and wants to hear her thoughts before anyone else’s. I’m sure if Chisato went through some more emotional arcs, she would do the same.

We don’t get to see too much, but it’s pretty clear that the second and first years really look up to Chisato as a leader. She helps them with practice, dance and stretching, she also make a a lot of the regiments. She’s also usually very kind and understanding, but does her best to push the girls.

As an extra, I love that Nakochan (Chisato’s VA) usually wears her hair in the same style of her character.

TLDR: 100/10 for MaruMaru. Nakochan actually has a really nice voice, check out some of the lives to see for yourself! ChisaKanon (KanoChisa? I’ve seen both) legendary Z-tier ship.

B: Uissu! Chisato is up now!

Chisato is in my opinion one of the best written supporting characters and my favourite of the best childhood friend archetype.

We see her at the start as a really cheerful, kind and energetic girl who hangs out with Kanon, and until her arc, we only get to see her in the supporting side, as a kind friend that’s helping KuuKa as a coach, aiding them, specifically Keke, in their training, but as the spotlight goes on her with flashbacks of her backstory, we get to see her evolution and how much her friendship with Kanon means, starting from a shy, weak, solitary girl with really low self esteem that “couldn’t do anything” on her own, until Kanon stepped in and showed her the world she didn’t explore on her own and the importance of moving forward, to what she is when the series begins, and we get to understand why she is so fixated on doing her best on something Kanon couldn’t do, taking dancing as a result so she can be proud of doing something on her own, even going as far as to challenge herself becoming the club president.

Her friendship with Kanon, of course, is vital for her, but while we only get to see the parts where Kanon is helping Chisato during their childhood, the opposite is also true, as stated by Kanon, Chisato also was helping her during her struggles with singing, as stated during her arc, they both know each other so well they know when the other one is not right, Kanon taking a long trip home to encourage Chisato on her dancing competition and Chisato bringing back the “true Kanon” by leaving her sing alone on her grade school to overcome her flaw, their friendship is awesome. Same applies in S2, Chisato cares so much about Kanon she was willing to make a drastic change in Liella so her best friend could fulfil her dreams of singing for the rest of the world, a decision that surely was painful for her to choose, but she was willing to go that length for her best friend. Their friendship is just peak. When she gets “angry” at Kanon though… she’s definitely scary.

Her interest and later on mentorship with Mei (I don’t think they have developed their friendship on screen?) was surprising yet not unwelcome, after all Mei had an insecurity on herself which Chisato could relate to, and when the third years were about to step out of the school gate and each gave a message to their kouhais, I was pleased to see it was Mei the one her message was directed to, I wish they could have given both a bit more of spotlight.

She’s so fun as a character as well, her obsession with circles and round things is hilarious, and her artistic abilities to draw circles is spectacular as well, loved the episode where they were choosing their name, or when she was at the Oriental Pearl in Shanghai, she was so obsessed with it was contagious, I did her same pose when I visited the tower myself. Also, I find it funny how Manmaru seems to be wary when Chisato visits the cafe. Seeing her working at a takoyaki truck gave the series a bit more of realism as well, I loved the detail that she wrote her catchphrase on the takoyaki she sent to Kanon when she was writing lyrics and the group’s name, and also felt sad when she folded the apron on her last day, it felt sad to see the journey’s end.

Overall she’s an awesome character, without a doubt one of my favourites of Liella, definitely top 3 for me, she’s a lovely character with contagious energy, ChisaKanon is such a top tier ship. My favourite individual song of her is Yuuki no Kakera, it’s such a relaxing yet motivating song.

C: 
In a way, Chisato is the heart of Superstar. As impactful as Kanon's story is, it's Chisato that changed her life for the better. Everything began when she decided she did not want to be defined as solely a bully victim that needed Kanon to rescue her. I feel Chisato's arc is often underrated for this. Having a girl take initiative to not be a damsel in distress and better herself to become a skilled dancer would have been amazing to see in the 90's or 00's, and still makes her look, as Kanon said, really cool even in the 20's. And it's admirable that she took that trauma in a healthy direction; she became someone who did not want to hold herself back or see others hold themselves back. Yet Superstar is impressively nuanced about the issue, as her and Kanon together learn that while it's important to stand on one's own, talking to and getting help from others is not a sign of weakness, but one of confidence and maturity. I love that after Kanon helps her realize this, Chisato returns the favour in the climactic episodes of both S1 and S2.

I remember people being upset at Chisato for lying to Kanon to force her to sing on her own, but I don't think she would have done it if they didn't already know each other so well. Not only did Kanon see through the lie, but she went on to explain perfectly why Chisato did it and that it made her realize she was running away from her issues. Chisato already knew the kind, confident, supportive girl she was from childhood. She saw that she was clinging to others too much, so she decided to show her right then and there that her strength as a singer does not come from others, but was right there in herself all along. It seems harsh on the surface, but it was the best thing she could have done for Kanon and the mark of a true friend. And that assertiveness is Chisato's defining trait that I don't think has any parallel in any other Love Live girl. That conviction in one's choices even if it seems unpopular.

And she repeats this in S2, being the only character that had her best moment come from what was otherwise a mess of a season. Like, without her, Kanon would have stayed in Japan, missing out on valuable music and life experience for being too timid to expand her boundaries. And she was even arguing against the writers themselves, repudiating OG Love Live's status quo ending.

And then S3 had her become a strong leader in her own right, building up Shiki's confidence in the same way. It's telling that while Kanon and Keke had multiple episodes dedicated to resolving their indecision about their futures, Chisato just quit her takoyaki job and said she was pursuing dance full time. Because at that point, she already knew who she was and what she wanted to do in life.

While I have this mental image of Chisato as this stone cold badass who goes against the grain to do what's right for others like the archetypical Nietzschean superman, her actual scenes still show her as this perky, cheerful girl who does doubt herself in the aforementioned scenes and relies just as much on Kanon's empathy and perceptiveness to build her own confidence. This even made for a great scene when Kinako was surprised by her circle obsession. Really, she's up there with Kanon as the two most nuanced, well developed characters in the entire franchise, and I barely give Kanon the edge because she gave me an emotional breakdown while Chisato mostly made me feel incredible admiration as one of the strongest willed female characters in anime.

Maruuuuuuuuuuu.

D: I really love Chisato! She's definitely made my top 5 Love Live characters, even without me liking Superstar much. I think she's almost Liella's second leader, becuase while Kanon keeps everyone (Chisato included) afloat, it's Chii-chan that keeps Kanon afloat. Whenever Kanon needed advice or help or even a little reining-in, Chisato was there to provide a calm encouraging perspective. It struck me the most when Kanon was all sad over the first years in S2 and the entire group deferred to Chisato. Literally, she was crying in the corner and they just waited for Chisato to show up. Liella would fall apart without her.

But despite this supporting role Chisato never felt like a side character to me, or like she was in Kanon's shadow. Her whole story arc was itself about besting Kanon and moving out of her shadow, becoming her own fully realized person, and she more than succeeded at this. She made it to the music course, became the best dancer in Japan, became Club President and even led Liella solo for a while. Even Shiki describes her as cool. Shiki. It's incredible to think Chisato managed so much her younger self would have baulked at. Much like Kanon would have baulked at everything she did in S1, but did it anyway with Chisato helping her. Isn't it great how those two constantly push each other forward?

I'd be remiss not to discuss Chisato's design, too. At first I will admit I thought she looked... weird, but the white hair and the buns really grew on me. Her clothes picks are great too, she has a kind of 80s-90s vibe and I love it. Her general disposition is really funny-- she really is half-crazy at times lol, even without the circles stuff. That part I'm weirdly not crazy on though, the circles bit felt very forced at times. I thought Chisato's eccentricity was obvious enough as is, with the rapping and the dancing and the cheerful head-in-the-clouds vibe, but it's whatever.

I do wish she got a friend outside of Kanon. Shiki or Mei would have been good picks, especially since she mentioned relating to Mei in her episode, but nothing came of it since Kanon recruited her for some reason. I've seen people pair her with Ren, but I think Chisato's a bit too out-there for Ren's tastes lol. Other than those nitpicks though I have no complaints for Chisato. She's funny, kind, inspiring, and a great friend.

E: Chisato whom Kanon once defended from bullies. Another "adoptive Onee-chan".

But sometimes tensions do occur inside their ship:

Chisato found Kanon's "educational approach" towards the youngsters in S2 too soft and even gave Kanon a head chop...

Had Kanon now on her own decided to travel to Hokkaido, it would've probably meant the first true crisis to their ship.

Liella's LL participation in jeopardy again...

But the writers infamously went for the "Hokkaido Bear" asspull (an actual trope name): Kanon's dad to forget some shit on Hokkaido and ordering Kanon to take it back.

Screw post offices and parcels.

And he gave her a "bear suit".... 🐻

Triggered heated complaints and debates because "cheating tropes" are unusual for LL that can't afford them anyway...

Also the weird sudden SIF2 decomissioning would soon be pulled off...

LL's first true crisis imo.

But things got better in and thx to S3. Even tho many conflicts are still far from being resolved.

Chisato among them. Because after their graduation the 5 originals are probably gonna have a harder time keeping contact with each other.

Is the sky gonna keep them connected, quote Mari on her original Aq's comrads, as as it turned out: Also the "latecomers"?

A key reason for a full blown S4 imo with enough time to take care of all the necessary character developments...

And I hope the producers know they better NOT erase any more birthdays from vets or anybody....

(personality-database.com opinion)

A: She seems a little too... soft to be 7w8? Take Keke who's a lot more steadfast in her beliefs and hating the idea of her plans suppressed by Ren, while Chisato sort of like goes with the flow. I don't know we'll see with coming episodes. She's great though

B: she honestly seems like a stereotypical se dom to me ajkfskhj- the way she wants to move her body and be active in general etc. so knowing love live, i'd say that she is a possible ESFP or sumth. the girls so far seem far from original but i do hope that i come to like them more as the time passes :)

C: After ep6, I've never been more confident that she's an sx9. She constantly felt like she wasn't enough for Kanon and wanted to do something Kanon couldn't and find something she'll love to do endlessly like Kanon seems very very sx9 to me. Even the scene before the dance competition, she reveals that she wanted to feel confident on her own and wanted to do dance by herself when Kanon wasn't around to prove she was worthy of standing next to Kanon also sounds sx9. Honestly her whole character arc is sx9, but she's a lovely character and I would love to see more of her as the anime goes by. In terms of whether she's w1 or w8, I'm conflicted but would love to hear arguments for either side. I'm leaning towards w8 for now because of her not wanting to feel weak for Kanon but maybe that's a personal characteristic and cannot be pertained to the Enneagram

D: Just finished the 1st season, she seems very soc 2 to me, supports Kanon and Liella! before putting herself forward. Becomes club president, tracks school gossip, connects people.
Gains soft power through being dependable and liked. Defines herself by her usefulness to the group