
name        : Kanon Shibuya
kanji       : 澁谷 かのん
color       : #ff7f27 
mbti        : INFP(121), ENFP(13)

(idol.st)
background:
While singing has always been her most cherished pastime, Kanon is more likely to be seen helping her mother manage the family cafe, serving customers their special baked apples with cream. Kanon's father works as a translator and her grandmother is from Spain, whose homemade paellas are one of Kanon's favorite dishes. As her home, Kanon has had many fond memories of the cafe, with much of her time there spent alongside her childhood friend, Chisato Arashi. Together they would often interact with Kanon's pet owl, Manmaru ("Roundy"), who now serves as the cafe's ever-popular mascot.

In the second season, she becomes the vice president of Yuigaoka's student council.

personality:
Kanon is seen as being somewhat shy and flustered, admitting that she is not good at communicating in front of others. However, while walking in town Kanon would often listen to music on her headphones, and would usually find herself singing the words to a song. Although she yearns to sing in front of people, Kanon is particularly nervous about doing so. Despite seeing herself as being very ordinary - having no particular talents or aspirations for her life - Kanon wishes to cheer people up through her favorite songs. Deciding to become a school idol was a way for her to do so, and to break away from merely seeing herself as simply "normal." But even though she thinks girly outfits are cute to look at, Kanon is a little shy and apprehensive about wearing anything too frilly or slightly revealing.

Kanon, despite being more shy than previous protagonists Honoka Kosaka and Chika Takami, has nonetheless a natural charisma and people orientation. She is very kind-hearted, friendly, cheerful, passionate and supportive. She's a selfless and loyal friend, with sense of justice, and used to front bullies who threatened Chisato when they were children. She's shown to like animals, as seen when she plays with a stray cat on the street.

She's very charismatic, with a magnetic personality and a natural affinity for people. Not only she loves to help others, she's also willing to befriend them, even when they don't treat her well at all, as seen in her interactions with Wien. It's also shown she can be idealistic to the point of being naive, finding good where more cynical characters wouldn't (for example, unlike Sumire, she didn't believe that Natsumi was actually the gold-digger she turned out to be).

Despite her natural kindness, Kanon has a more boyish and blunt side, displayed when she's at home and in her more nervous moments. Though this happens mostly at the beginning, due to her personal frustration and considering herself a failure before she met Keke.


(namu.wiki)
introduction:
Hello, my name is Shibuya Kanon.
Uh... I'm sorry. I'm not very good at this kind of thing. Um... you're asking for a self-introduction, right? A self-introduction.
My name is Kanon. My birthday is May 1st.
I'm just an ordinary high school student with nothing special about me, living with my family and helping out at the coffee shop.
I don't have any special talents... What? Singing? I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't!
...I'm nervous, but actually, I want to make everyone feel healthy through the songs I really love.
I don't have any future aspirations, and I don't really have any subjects I'm good at...
Ahhh, I have absolutely nothing to brag about!
However, thinking that even though I am this ordinary—no,
perhaps because I am this ordinary—there might be something possible, I decided to become a school idol.

details:
Unlike the previous protagonists who had energetic, positive, and proactive personalities, Kanon has the most timid and low-tension personality among all the protagonists.[6] On the other hand, her emotional expression is the most multifaceted among the protagonists, and she has the most scenes of getting angry or crying among all the protagonists. In particular, in the first episode of the first season of the anime, Kanon had a very pessimistic and gloomy personality, because at the time, Kanon was having a mentally difficult time after failing her high school entrance exam due to a recurrence of trauma.

Kanon's dark personality gradually disappears as the work progresses, but her timid and hot-tempered personality does not completely disappear as it is her actual personality.

In the second season, she shows herself leading her juniors as a senior and changes into a bright and active personality. This can be interpreted as Kanon achieving inner growth and becoming a true leader, but there was also controversy regarding character breakdown
due to the sudden change in personality. However, in the scenes showing her childhood in the first season, she shows a bright and active side, so it can be said that she originally had a positive personality.

In Season 3, she hoped to study abroad at a music school in Vienna , Austria , thanks to a girl who was once her rival from middle school and later entered Yuigaoka High School as her junior, but this fell through. She then advanced to the third year of Yuigaoka High School and attended, but temporarily left Liella! to join a rival group called Tomakanote . Later, she returned to Liella! with all the members of Tomakanote, and finally, after graduating from school, she left to study abroad at a music school in Vienna, Austria.

(wikipedia)
anon is a third-year student who claims to be "someone without standout characteristics". She aims to support and befriend everyone, even those who were initially unfriendly towards her. Her family consists of her busy father who works as a translator, her mom who runs a cafe, and a younger sister. The sisters often help their mother with various chores around the café, with one of her specialties being creating latte art. Kanon owns a pet Eurasian scops owl who also serves the café's popular mascot.

(reddit opinion)

A: I love her a lot! One of the most relatable Love Live characters in my opinion. I like that she's a bit more socially anxious and shy than Honoka or Chika. Or at least that's how she was at the beginning before becoming more brave and confident in herself. I definitely enjoyed watching her grow as a person over the three seasons! I'd probably have to rewatch S1 again to make a proper analysis or anything of the sorts. But I do remember that I could easily see myself in her position and from what I've seen, many other people did too. I also enjoyed her and Chisato's friendship dynamic a lot!

B: Shibuya Kanon! Wait, maybe that’s more of a Margarete thing… anyways, it’s time for Liella!

Liella, and Love Live Superstar as a whole is a unique experience, especially if you’re coming off of the previous shows. It returns to the single idol group formula of SIP and Sunshine, but only starts us with 5 characters. It’s also the only show to take place over multiple school years, and has 3 seasons!

To be honest, if this series had come out about 6 months ago, some characters might have had very different discussions. Season 3 did a great job recontextualizing and expanding on a lot of the girls, so I’d like to focus on how the characters evolved through the final season, and how it reflects who they are from the first few seasons.

Shibuya Kanon is the girl at the center of it all. Much like the Honoka and Chika before her, she is the catalyst for the story to unfold. But Kanon is very different compared to the other girls. She’s often far more reserved and not as headstrong. Perhaps it’s because there’s not as much of an impetus, but Liella’s earlier seasons take a lot of time to simply exist. The school’s not closing, so Kanon’s focus shifts more towards her own journey and growth as a person, and as a leader.

Thanks to the slower pace of Superstar, a lot of the growth for many of the girls has time to properly be shown. Kanon develops her self confidence, her leadership, and forms a group of friends around her that she can rely on. The later seasons show her learn to focus a bit more on her own desires and journey.

One of the most interesting episodes in Season 3 was when Kanon took a short trip to check out Vienna. I was fully convinced they would wait until the movie to do that, but it really showed the more introspective side of Kanon that we hadn’t seen much since season 1. It was a nice callback, but also showed her dedication and the confidence she had developed as the leader of Liella (and TomaKanoTe”).

As the main focus of much of Superstar, we get to see her relationships with everyone else very clearly. Each season allowed Kanon to interact with the (at the time) first years. Unfortunately, after each season, we don’t get as much time for more complex character interactions. One of the unfortunate consequences of having 11 important characters means that you can’t reasonably find a way to have all 55 unique pairings of characters interact.

That being said, a feeling that I’ve resonated with strongly is that Kanon is one of the most human and relatable protagonists. Sometimes it can feel like characters such as Chika, Honoka and Yu are almost larger than life in the way the are, but Kanon has a certain down-to-earth-ness about her which makes her very easy to identify with.

Something interesting about Liella as a whole is that there’s much more of an emphasis on the Seiyuu themselves. It’s a bit more of a commitment to learn about the 11 real life women who play these characters, so I’ll keep it short here. Sayurin, Kanon’s Seiyuu, is pretty much how I’d imagine Kanon to be in real life (minus the hair color, I guess). She’s great. One of my favorite moments with her is when the starting 9 are doing impressions of each other and she has a particularly interesting reaction of Yabu-chan’s (Mei’s voice actress) Kanon.

Ultimately, being able to watch Kanon over three years makes her journey all the more meaningful, and all the sadder when we see her graduate.

TLDR: 83/10 for yet another “Ka” protagonist. Sayurin is a real gem. ChisaKanon legendary Z-tier ship. They have so many great moments in all 3 seasons.

Song for me, Song for you, Song for All!

C: Kanon is an incredibly well-rounded and well-written character, definitely up there for me as one of Love Live's best. I think her S1 arc was an absolute stroke of genius: a girl who loves to help and uplift others, but can't practice what she preaches and struggles to believe in herself. She'd quietly resigned herself to the general curriculum course, but furiously stood up for Keke when Ren was facing her down. Even when she gains her self-confidence through Keke she retains that firey streak for protecting others, such as when Sumire threw herself under the bus in S2. This is a perfect formula for a leader, and while I love the energetic-but-stupid leaders we'd had before, Kanon was an excellent and much-needed move to something new. She's an great person, an aamzing role model (important I think for Superstar's focus on children), and I loved seeing her slowly build self-confidence over the first season.

Her character design is great, too. She looks a bit like Riko and Chika fused haha, and kinda behaves like it too. Superstar in general I think excelled with its designs, and Kanon I'd say is one of the best. I like how she's a little more androgynous for Love Live, not that she's a tomboy or anything, but her speech is pretty blunt and she tends to like baggy clothes. It makes her feel very real and very believable, I guess? I think she's the closest Love Live gets to its idea of an ordinary girl who goes on to extraordinary things.

If I could criticize anything about Kanon, I feel her story ends too quickly. It's great in S1 don't get me wrong, but it's done by the end of that season and there's nowhere for her to go. Her actions are all perfect and she never makes a moral misstep, and she ends up being the miracle cure problem-solver for every single S2 member. Margarete was seemingly meant to challenge her a bit, but I never really felt she did, Kanon's mentality didn't change from her presence.

Still that S1 arc was brilliant, and means I'll always hold Kanon in high regard. Her voice is great too, Honno Choppiri was an amazing way to show off her singing power and it's held up since. It was shaky a little around Free Flight, I'm not crazy on that song (coldest take of all time I know), but otherwise I always enjoy Kanon's presence in a song.

D: Adore her, she’s my favourite protagonist. There’s so much I could say but really I’d just be repeating what everyone else is saying. She just seems really down to earth, and the contrast between season 1 & 3 is so nice to see - I love how she grows like crazy in those ~3 years, her interactions with Margarete and Tomari as almost an emotional mentor are so nice to me.

E: Kawaii? Onee-chan? Kanon time!

My Love alive journey started just like your weekly character discussions, from Nijigasaki, to μ’s Aqours and then Liella!, so after watching 3 groups, I didn’t know what to expect from Liella, and went in thinking they wouldn’t get me caught in. And oh boy I was never so glad to be wrong, as the very first episode was a bliss to enjoy. Honnochoppiri was an amazing starter that got me interested into Kanon, her singing was amazing and she felt so relatable when she put hear headphones on ignoring the rest of the world, singing her heart out, and later on Keke bombarding her with Chinese was hilarious (I will comment more on this next week).

Her arc in S1 is one of my favourite character developments, from someone who lacks self confidence and is unable to sing when it matters, but still trying despite being on the verge of giving up, and being protective of others, like how she stood up to Ren for Keke or aided Sumire (in scouting her), to sing along with Keke when neither of them had the courage to sing until Chisato helped with the penlights, to protect Chisato during their childhood, and after as shown in Chisato’s arc (girl literally took a long ship voyage just to go and encourage her for her dance competition, that is a respect+ moment) and to overcome her struggles by singing for her school, she instantly became one of my favourites from Liella, and even in general in my top 10, and she’s not like the previous orange haired leaders (or the next), which was a really welcomed change.

She’s also so relatable in having a school mood and a home mood, seeing her wearing glasses at home was a really good surprise since we really haven’t seen many of the main character with glasses, if I’m not mistaken Setsuna/Nana was the only other one, so I loved seeing her interactions at home.

Her Arc in S2 was was enjoyable, but I honestly wish she could have given more time to the other S2 cast, but I love that they at least tried to change the formula a bit by having her struggling to decide whether to study abroad or not and Chisato encouraging her to go was really sweet to see. Their friendship is really one of the best in the franchise. In S3… the 3rd years just existed I guess, but their outro performance with the tradition of the debut song performed at the last season, which is an awesome way to finish the anime series.

Overall I love Superstar, they have become my second favourite group, their songs are really good and their designs are also one of my favourite.

I love her singing too, Free flight was my favourite song of her before I got into the anime, but after it I think her first song, Honnochoppiri got the spot of favourite individual song. Love the throwback they did in the last episode referring to the first episode too.

To end this… DAISUKITTE IMA SAKEBOU!!!

F: After months of anticipation, she's finally here (cue fanfare)! The greatest character in the entire franchise! The shining star that went above and beyond  her shy girl predecessors to tell the best version of "A Star Is Born", I've ever seen. The girl that, no joke, actually impacted the course of my life in a positive way. I could write a much longer essay about her, but I will just sum it up by pointing out all the ways she surprised me.

Initially, I was pleasantly surprised that they gave the leggings to the protagonist. It's like if Hanayo was the leading lady, and in retrospect, I am always pleased to see all the people saying how Kanon was the first Love Live protagonist they related to. It really was a good idea to break from tradition and have a shy, timid lead. I liked Riko a lot, so it would be a joy to have a similar character with a more complex personality and story. Still, at the time, I ranked her the lowest of the 5 girls because I thought she was going to be a generic, nice, passive shoujo lead. And I thought she was ugly. (yes, really!)

Episodes 1-3: Not only was she decidedly not ugly in the actual show, but I was immediately captivated. She wasn't just a shy girl, but was genuinely depressed in a way that felt so real. Her breakdown in Ep3 where she felt she was useless and only made things worse for Keke hit me hard, especially after her anxiety was played for laughs. So this show won me over, now knowing they were really going to take her issues seriously while still being funny and relatable.

Episode 6: This was the major turning point. I feel like you pointing out how Honoka and Chika were not good at reading people led up to this moment, the reveal that Kanon in contrast reads people very well. The sheer audacity of this girl, with only a few days left before her performance, to risk it all on a 12 hour boat ride to the mainland. All because of her friend's tone of voice on the phone. And despite Chisato rejecting her, she handled the situation superbly, letting her vent her conflicted feelings and then saying just the right thing to make her feel better. Like, girl, where do you get this confidence from?! I would have been scared witless if I was in that situation. Upon rewatch, I also realized, Kanon didn't instantly figure out what was troubling Chisato, and her initial words actually made her feel worse. That makes her turnaround all the more impressive since it's not some magical psychic talk no jutsu powers, but coming from someone who does make mistakes but whose sincerity shines through regardless.

Episode 11. Honestly, everything from her going to Aria onwards, but most of all, the phone call. When Chisato offered Kanon to call if she needed her, I thought I had it all figured out. This was going to be yet another anime friendship scene where Kanon would cry about how she's scared, Chisato would reassure her that her friends are always there in spirit, and everyone's happy. But then..."Arigato!" I was stunned. She knew. She knew the others were lying about not being able to be alongside her. Yet, she wasn't sad or angry. There she was, calmly admitting, in essence, that Chisato made her realize she was trying to hide her problems from everyone, but she needed to stand on her own to help others. I couldn't believe what I was hearing. If she understood she needed to be independent, then why did she ask Aria and Chisato for help?

Then, I realized something. Kanon did not ask for help because she was weak. No, she did it because she's humble and mature enough to know when she needs help. And maybe, just maybe, I should do the same. I can be honest about my issues from a position of confidence, not weakness.

And of course, Little Kanon. The big twist where she finally saw the full story of her failure. The memory that said, "You're wrong about yourself! This brave, cheerful, supportive girl you see? That's you! This is who you've been all along!" And what happened then, well, in Whoville they say, that the Grinch's small heart grew three sizes that day. (really, that clip is an accurate portrayal of how this episode flat out made me lose it).

And then, Aozora o Matteru. My favourite solo song, and one I never expected from Love Live. Maybe Sara Bareilles or Sanketsu Shoujo Sayuri (honestly, Kanon's entire character gives me singer-songwriter vibes as a composer myself), but seeing the words "I hate you" from Kanon gave me chills. So, even someone as kind as you has a dark side. But Kanon's so honest about her flaws that it made me feel better about myself and encouraged me to open to others rather than trying to hide my faults to look perfect.

Yes, I know people resent her for taking a disproportionate amount of screen time in later seasons, and she did come off as less complex. But even then, the Vienna plot was the perfect way to end her story, showing that while she's grown a lot, she still needs people to help push her out of her comfort zone, and that's okay. Also, her being casually good at fixing the sink was charming and shown how much stronger female characters in anime have become.

Kanon means so much to me that I can't consider her anything less than the pinnacle of Love Live, or not get ridiculously emotional when writing about her story. I actually noticed myself steadily becoming more confident speaking to other people because I started believing in myself more thanks to her example.

And I'm not even done talking about her yet, because of how she ties into the stories of Keke and Chisato for the coming weeks, and those two have a lot of interesting nuances as well to explore.

G: Kanon the magnetic hero par excellence. HonoChika had their chessmasters in the background pulling the strings (Nozomi lost control from "Tomodachi" on, Dia would endure untit the very end) - Kanon meanwhile doesn't have someone like that.

Yuigaoka's director maybe fulfils this trope a little bit, she tricked Kanon into finding the first few clues on Ren's past after all, but after the original Liella failed at their first LL the director didn't rly know what to do.

Presumably she, Ren's mom and Ren's maid were band mates at the old Yuigaoka, so director and maid would and should know more. And they should inform Kanon quickly.

Despite Kanon's stay in Austria she is still the only one able to catch Ren, should her repressed memories of her family fully resurface.

Because afaics this will completely knock out Ren, and she might lie in bed utterly exhausted for quite a while, like Asuka Soryu from the original Evangelion after Arael.

And Superstar famously adopted Eva's female school uniforms. Not the first Eva reference in LL. Haruhi Suzumiya also adopted Eva's female uniforms, and invented the "SOS school club", that became a basic plot point in all of LL.

The remaining Liella now need to mature into such an SOS club without Kanon their "Brigade Leader". Mei was "crowned" chairwoman similar to Kayo. Both not fully voluntarily, and both with their Tsundere outbursts. We didn't get to see Kayo's maturing process - but we might get to see Mei's in a S4 or film...

...maybe again with the help from Kanon. Several tasks at the same time:

fixing Margarete's family. Her parents once left her home alone as little kid. No wonder Margarete prefers to stay in Japan after finding Tomari. I have a feeling Margarete's sister's the "Austrian MengMeng" and did and will arrange a few things...

helping Mei "remotely". Thx to mobile phones and video chats it's possible "in-time" (the "modern-tech" premise aka "Mirai zura" premise as I call it)

Kanon and Liella already helped SunnyPa like this. Via video and in person. Their Passion Island in trouble after they couldn't win their final LL. Can Kanon help? Does she need to show up in person? After all, also this gen's "Awaken the Power" still needs to happen: Dancing Heart La "Pa Pa Pa" by "Sunny Liella Passion"

safely catching Ren. Here Kanon definitely needs to show up in person. She'll scold director and maid for not telling the whole story afaics, like chika scolded the 3rd years. Did director and maid once promise Ren's mom to take care of Ren, (Tokyo)-Godfathers-like? They'll have to explain to Kanon why they didn't inform her earlier afaics

A big pile of challenges. But it's no one-way-road, it's a mutual thing:

Kanon for a long time struggling with her stage fright. For the final blow against it the others tricked her into performing alone onstage - the famous Watashi no Symphony solo, Kanon's second Aishiteru.

Kanon's meeting her childhood self in her flashback came from Maki's OVA (the "short distance reference"), but it also came from Evangelion again (the "long distance reference", making it one of many "reference chains" in stories of LL's caliber).

"Watashi no Symphony" = "The symphony of mine" or "the music of mine" is yet another reference chain:

Maki, Riko directly and others indirectly losing their music and getting it back = "shortest distance"

"Lost My Music" from Haruhi Suzumiya again = "second shortest distance"

Music the most noble accomplishment of man = Kaworu Nagisa's famous quote from Evangelion again = the "longest distance" here and the origin to this reference chain again

So once again we've come full circle in many respects.

But was Kanon rly alone? No: She never was alone. Her friends were always with her, even if it wasn't a physical presence.

Kanon learned there's someone whose presence she can count on, with or without physical presence.

And that's what finally gave her a true self-confidence for the first time.

Kanon who's always there for all the others finally found others who are there for her. But her friends may have to prove it again, should Kanon find herself in trouble in Vienna. Then it would be chairwoman and brigade leader Mei's time to grow and shine, and to keep the cool while still "sticking to her guns", as Margarete would say....

Last not least one of my obligatory comparisons: Star Trek -

Star Trek 3 - Kirk and his crew saving Spock in a by Starfleet's laws illegal way. Spock asks Kirk why, Kirk answers: "Because the life of one is as important as the life of many."

Star Trek 5 - Spock and Bones saving Kirk at the last second, Spock asking Kirk why he wasn't afraid. Kirk: "I knew I wouldn't die. I wasn't alone."

Finally also Kanon knows she's not alone.

H: I absolutely can't stand Kanon and his ugly mug! Them freaking irritating magical tricks man! Ugh! May he forever burn in Hell, as he constantly smacked Pikachu, er, Nicole (both characters are played by Ootani Ikue-san) and Serena/Selena.

Huh? Oh, the other Kanon! The cute girl one! The Liella Haruka clone and not the old geezer! (Look up "Guardian Heroes" if you don't know the evil Kanon I'm talking about.) Ah ha ha.

"Love Live" Kanon from what I remember took me a while to like. I don't flat out dislike her, but I don't carry much of a bond with her or any of the Niji or Liella members because I still haven't properly closed the book on Aqours, as I need to finish the Yoshiko spinoff. At least she's the cutest Spain character, even if she's only partial. Way better than Claw Madman for sure. I was going to keep the tights figurine of hers, but I decided to let my friend have it for a birthday gift because I have no room left on my shelves.

Niji. I tried to not have the Azusa clone be my top Niji character because I don't want to treat "Love Live" like "Imas", but Karin will end up as my favorite Niji character. I really like Takahashi Chiaki-san and Azusa that much to the point I like Kubota Miyu-san and Karin the most. I think the ranking probably is Karin, Yuu, Ayumu, Shizuku, Kanata, Ai, Rina, Emma, Setsuna, Kasumi, Mia, Shioriko and Lanzhu. Sorry all.

Side note. Not covered, but I really like Seira/Sarah and Ria/Leah to the point I'd get figurines of them. Not my favorite side characters (that honor belongs to Irma if she counts, an import game character if she doesn't), but they're cute never the less. I did get to see Tano-san though.

(personality-database.com opinion)

A: isn't it a bit too early to type the liella girls? kanon is growing to be my favorite from the available introductions, but ngl i thought of Fe instead of Fi for her. she reminds me more of ayumu and chika, both Fe users, than school idol jesus honoka. kanon emphasizes a lot about her being normal and not having too many specialties like our two most recent protags, while chad honoka doesn't really care about that and leapt face first into being a school idol lol (probably because in her case fame is very urgent but still lolol)

one of her lines in her self introduction was translated like this by team onibe "[...] precisely because i'm a normal girl, there's gotta be something only i can do", it kinda sounds like Fi maybe? still, it's way Way WAY too early to guess and it'll be a pain when we have to fix her type from INFP if we were proven wrong by the anime or sifas story

B: Just watched the first episode! I think her feelings on singing and her history with stage fright locked her into a pretty obvious Fi-Si loop. She hates the feeling of disappointing not only herself but others, and doesn’t see a way out of it (no Ne usage because of loop). Also I’m going for phobic 6w5 on this but still not sure on that, just voting from what we’ve seen so far. Would love to hear everyone’s thoughts as well:o

Edit: After watching the second episode and giving it a bit more thought, her Fi is really clear. INFP seems most likely, but I wouldn't throw away the possibility of her being ISFP just yet.

Edit 2: Settling with INFP for now. But her enneagram? Core 4? She fixates a lot on how normal she is and how there is nothing about her that inherently makes her stand out. Fours tend to have an inferiority complex as well – but that is due to them feeling alienated for being different from everyone else, while Kanon... constantly emphasizes how normal she is. 6w7 seems to be a better fit from what we have so far. Almost every Fi dom in original animes initially get typed as fours for whatever reason lol.

C:Why not sp/sx 6? Sp/so 6s often look very soft (if they are predominantly phobic, not sure if they are predominantly counterphobic. Just speaking from personal experience) and at times they might not stand up for themselves in fear of getting attacked by others and become paralyzed with overthinking if they should or not, this happens mainly because of their secondary social instinct that's well attuned with social conventions and the like, so their weakness might be not being able to stand up for themselves because if they show aggression, they might get harmed by others. Kanon otoh, she is pretty confident with her values (e.g standing up for Chisato against her bullies, standing up for Keke against Ren in the 1st ep) and doesn't really show signs of nervousness during these times, which kinda shows her counterphobic side just a little. Sp/sx 6s tend to show their counterphobia sometimes. Not saying that sp/so 6s can't defend themselves, it's just more like they will be observably more nervous in defending them when they do. But idk, I'm gonna refrain from voting for now. A lot of these traits may as well be attributed to sp 6 in general, and apart from oceanmoonshine there's not a lot of good descriptions for subtype stackings online

Also she is nearly my type twin apart from her temperament and socionic type, and I love that she is. Definitely saw a lot of myself while watching the anime in her apart from her having a bigger backbone than I do lmao

D: I personally don't think she's introverted, she suffered from stage fright and is certainly quieter than Keke, but I still think she is an ENFP. For me, what truly characterizes her is her Ne-Fi main axis: she's open-minded, creative and faithful to being herself and do what's right. Being kind, supportive, selfless and empathetic isn't necessarily Fe.

E: She's purpose/meaning first; (music as hope, sunny-above-the-clouds outlook).
Tuned to others’ feelings; befriends even the prickly (Wien); wants to uplift; group-oriented leadership.