
name        : Keke Tang
kanji       : 唐 可可
color       : #a0fff9
mbti        : ENFP(113), ESFP(9)

(idol.st)
background:
Keke has a love for school idols after being inspired by Sunny Passion, which led her to make the move to Yuigaoka from Shanghai. Keke vows to work hard to become a school idol while living in Japan by herself, a country that also happens to be her mother's homeland. Her keen sense of style and fashion makes her an invaluable asset to girls like Kanon, whose wardrobe may occasionally be in need of someone with a more discerning eye. Seemingly the least fit member of the five, Keke would prefer to do almost anything in school besides gym class.

Keke founded Yuigaoka's school idol club with Kanon.

personality:
A fun-loving and energetic optimist, Keke holds that the most important things in life are passion and a smiling face. To her, anything is possible if one never gives up, such as being a school idol. When dealing with tense or stressful situations, Keke often recalls the pithy advice her mother once gave: if her emotions were to ever run hot, it is best to "cool down" with sweets. Her mother's words being the likely inspiration for her sweet tooth, Keke believes that a scoop of ice cream can do more to wash away grouchy feelings than anything else, and could even bring about reconciliation among bickering friends.

(namu.wiki)

introduction:
Hello everyone. This is Tang Kuku.[9] Please call me Kuku.
This is not the time to be sleeping like a ku-ku! Wake up! It's time to wake up! Kuku came to Japan from Shanghai
because she admired school idols ! My favorite things are chocolate bananas, Neapolitan pasta, and school~~~ idols! I will do my best in school idol activities here in Japan, my mom's hometown! Please join me as a school idol too!

Answer loudly! One more time! Here we go! Good! That's it!

(wikipedia)

Keke is a third-year student who hails from Shanghai, China, having just recently moved to Japan — her mother's homeland — to become a school idol, and is initially responsible for recruiting new members for the club. She holds the JLPT N1 certificate. Keke has a habit of speaking in Mandarin when she gets excited. Cheerful and optimistic, she encourages Kanon to overcome her self doubting personality quirks.

(reddit opinion)

A: 
I… don’t actually know what to put as the lead in for Keke. Pretend I said something witty in Mandarin :)

Tang Keke is one of the few characters who really feels like she develops in all three years of the show. Characters like Sumire, Chisato and Ren can often feel like they’re sidelined, but the writers really seemed to favor Keke, and I’m here for it.

Season one Keke is a starry-eyed dreamer, whose perseverance and determination are honestly kind of impressive, even by Love Live standards. She hears Kanon sing once, and the immediately decides they should form an idol group together. It at times almost felt like Keke was the protagonist for the first part of season one.

Unlike some of the other “dreamer” girls, Keke is very stubborn, to the point of occasionally being argumentative. Of course, Sumire brings this part of her out the most, but I’ll talk more about their dynamic later. For season one, we don’t know much about Keke’s motivation beyond emulating SunnyPa, but it’s truly Keke’s love for idols that ends up creating Liella, which is kind of amazing.

Season 2 allows Keke to take a slightly more mature attitude, with there being some new Kouhais for her. With this, we start to see a bit more of her deeper self. She feels like she’s under a lot of pressure to do well, even if she doesn’t really let it show. By the end of season 2, we have a bit of a better idea about how Keke is, but we still don’t know very much about her besides that.

Keke received a lot of attention in Season 3 as well. Her long, long journey reaches its conclusion with the trip to Shanghai. We finally get some actual backstory about Keke before the show began, and it does a great job recontextualizing a lot of what we see from her for the first two season. Ultimately, her decision to become Sumire’s producer, while a bit out of left field, is a nice conclusion to her story which has her doing something she truly enjoys.

Keke’s relationship with the rest of the Liella girls is interesting. Unfortunately, we don’t get too much interaction between all of the possible pairs and groups of characters, but I’ll hit on some of the highlights. Like with Sumire, I would expect Keke to be quite stubborn and annoyed with Margarete’s shenanigans, but Keke definitely had a soft spot for both her and Tomari. I think Keke actually gets along really well with Mei because she (at least according to season 3) really understands what it’s like to be alone at times, and really loves idols as well. Over the two years they spend together, I’d like to think that Keke manages to inspire a similar love for idols in Shiki and Natsumi, but I wish we got a bit more time to see them interact, same for Kinako.

While Keke initially saw Ren as a big bad antagonist, I think she also probably forgave her very quickly after she joined Liella. I believe that she really respects Ren’s ability to balance her studies and time with Liella (albeit after struggling a bit with games). I assume that there’s something similar with Chisato, but I can’t easily recall much about their interactions in later seasons.

Kanon and Keke’s relationship is a big focus of season 1, but beyond that, there’s not much to say until the Shanghai arc in season 3. Kanon understood having serious pressure on yourself, and while it was nice to have a reverse callback to season 1, where Keke inspired Kanon, I do sort of wish that this was Sumire’s big moment.

Speaking of, the bickering couple trope was executed (in my opinion) very well. Even from season 1, the two of them are often butting heads because of their stubbornness, but there are just as many moments when they show that they really care for each other. Even more if you check out the manga. They do both tend to struggle at communicating their feelings, but by the end of the show, it seems that they both have a much better handle on it.

Before I wrap up, there are a few interesting things about Keke’s Chinese nationality. I know quite little about the specifics of this section, so feel free to point out any inconsistencies. So Keke’s name in Mandarin has a pronunciation closer to the English “schwa” (think the vowel sound in “book”). The closest sound in Japanese is what they translated that to, reading クク (with some neat Kanji if anyone’s interested). Liyuu (Keke’s voice actress) is a native Mandarin speaker, but I recall hearing that her regional accent doesn’t quite match where Keke is supposed to be from. I suppose it’s similar to Shuu-Chan not exactly sounding like she’s from New York.

TLDR: 63/10 for more Chinese representation. Liyuu does a great job, and her height gap with Sayurin is hilarious. KeSumi legendary Z-tier ship (might as well be canon at this point).

B: Her relationship with Sumire feels like the most real friendship in the entire of LL,mainly after nonfiction,before that she was just straight up hating on Sumire for what she saw as a valid reason. Her season 1 hate fealt more visceral while everything post nonfiction was more of homie bickering,you don't find them without each other for almost the entirety of season 2. Season 2 Episode 9 when Keke hits Sumire with "I hate you" while shedding tears just hits hard,cause she knows Sumire sacrificed just to make Keke happy and she hates that. Keke got my respect for that,she wants everyone to be happy in the end. The most realistic depiction of teenage friendships (or atleast teen male friendships)

C: I don't feel I have much interesting or insightful to say about Keke. My opinion seems to be pretty widespread: I loved her at the start of S1, with her obvious (sunny) passion for her new life path and happiness at her new freedom. She was a great energetic foil to Kanon, motivating her in times when she wouldn't have done something herself, and played off Kanon's people-pleasing habit very well. When KuuKa's arc ended, Keke was looking to be a top tier character for me.

But I didn't like her relationship with Sumire one bit. And it's not just that I don't like teasing relationships (though I certainly don't); Chisato teases Kanon a fair bit but still genuinely loves her and vice-versa. Keke's treatment of Sumire just felt too defining, like it was all the writers saw her as for a while, and it felt much too harsh. Even in S2 when Sumire nearly sabotages her entire future with Liella for Keke, she still can't thank Sumire for it without first saying she hates her.

The thing that hangs me up the most though is how it really doesn't make any sense. Ren was hell-bent on ruining Keke's life for a while and Keke forgave her near-instantly, Sumire said idols were amateurish once (and quickly retracted it) and Keke hated her forever? I feel you could say "Keke just doesn't like egotistical people" and it'd make more sense. Hell, even "Keke is the inversion of Rina and hates all blondes" would make more sense.

That being said, I love S1 Keke. Her story was good, her character was great, and she was really easy to cheer for. S3 improved things too, I felt she sort of moved to a leadership straight-man role in Liella-minus-Kanon alongside Chisato, and that was great to see. Overall I like her, but I would have loved her bar her Sumire relationship. Her singing voice is great too, I especially love Anniversary from the S1 Liella no Uta ending songs. It's such a peaceful song, her seiyuu killed it.

D: 
Sukina koto wo gambaru koto ni oshimaenante arundesu ka?

It’s Keke’s turn now! Before getting into Liella, Keke wasn’t one I was too interested into, but that changed drastically after watching just the first episode of Superstars, she instantly became my favourite character, she’s so passionate about school idols, really determined about her goals, stubborn and headstrong with her ideals (looking at the isopod and Ren), highly religious (SunnyPa worship is strong in her), really energetic despite having zero stamina, and a prodigy in school (kind of expected due to her backstory though). And she says desu a lot, which is fun and I love it. She’s such an awesome character.

From the very first interaction with Kanon, she already caught my attention, I loved the fact that they went deeper with other languages such as Chinese, it was definitely an improvement from the occasional words from Lanzhu, and I would definitely like to see more foreign language interactions in the next gens. She went through so much effort to scout Kanon, the first episode was a lot of fun with how she spent most of the first day chasing the subarashii koe no hito, and later on to train to become a school idol from literally zero stamina (that’s a serious detail she forgot to mention, yet she pulled through with sheer willpower and love for idols, and a lot of patari too), and it was interesting how she branded Sumire as a heretic as soon as she got wind of her reason to join but slowly learned to accept her (girl really took half a year to call her by her name lol), her journey from just a hardcore fan to become a talented idol in which their kouhai look up to was absolute cinema.

She’s also a really caring friend, she never gave up on Kanon despite her many attempts at refusing her invitation, after her disappointment in herself when she noticed that she couldn’t sing again, she supported her all the way, even when she herself was nervous about the first Yoyogi festival, her love-hate/teasing relationship with Sumire is really fun, the first gusokumoshi desu ka with that smirk made me laugh. She can also be really savage though, like how angry she initially was at Ren for rejecting their school idol club application form and decided to quit school, but after getting into friendly terms with her she even called her RenRen, and with Kinako KinaKina, so cute, and Keke sharing the same braincell with Chisato when they were dressing Kanon in a cute outfit was hilarious. Her relationship with Mei is also really cute, with how both are hardcore idol fans, it was funny to see how both of they were crying after the Bubble Rise performance.

She’s a character that every times she’s on screen I’ll never get bored of, her constant emotional mood swings are comedic, like how she was blissful about the fact that SunnyPa would perform along them, until se realised it meant they couldn’t win, which drastically changed her reaction, or how whenever she gets excited she just outright speaks Chinese instead of Japanese, and I love the detail of chinese cymbals sounding whenever she has a dramatically exaggerated expression, and let’s not forget when SunnyPa actually visited them at Kanon’s home, she was so astonished she didn’t know what to do anymore and needed Sumire to calm her down. S2 unfortunately was not as memorable for me as she was practically blaming Sumire over the whole season.

But despite how goofy she is, she’s still a really considerate person, as in S3, she was willing to sacrifice her wishes for her career as an idol just to repay the kindness of her parents by fulfilling their wishes of her going to college, which of course Sumire noticed, and later on got uno reversed by Kanon with the same words she used to convince Kanon to keep singing, that throwback to S1 was unexpected, but totally welcome. Her spotlight during S3 was gorgeous, specially the chinese version of Hoshizuku Cruising, I truly wish they would someday release a full version of that rearrangement.

But honestly what surprised me the most was the fact that we actually got to see his dad, after generations and seasons of barely seeing the LL dads.

Overall amazing character, Liyuu definitely made an amazing job with her, she became my favourite Liella character from the very first episode, SumiKeke (and ChisaKanon) best Liella ship, my favourite song is Hoshikuzu Cruising, but if we’re counting duos it will be of course Tiny Stars. Also how did she dye her hair like that? 唐可可最可爱了！ Also good image choice OP.

E: 
Keke is my third favourite of the Liella girls. Part of this is bias because I'm also of Chinese descent, but her character arc went in an interesting direction. Certainly, her role as the light in Kanon's life when she was in a major depressive funk was a large part of what made the first three episodes of Superstar so memorable, and if this was a typical A Star Is Born story, they would have continued to grow together (hopefully minus the usual tragedy). But instead, Superstar went in a different direction, culminating with Chisato showing Kanon she didn't need someone to rescue her, and she was already a strong person in her own right. So where does that leave Keke then?

If I was assessing Keke based on the first season alone, her character arc seems underwhelming. She mostly serves as this manic pixie dream girl that exists primarily for others' character development; first Kanon, then Sumire. Any interest I had in her was almost entirely carried by her confessional to Kanon in Episode 3 where she admitted she had no real goal in life until she discovered idols, something that would take until Season 3 to expand on. But that was when the true nature of her arc became apparent. If she's the least developed of the original 5 girls in the first season, it's because she did not want to grow as a person. She wanted to delay having to grow up and make decisions about her future for as long as possible. Her "I don't care about the future. I just want to get the most out my youth" speech reminded me of Peter Pan's reaction to Wendy's "What are your real feelings, Peter?" from the 2003 movie, similarly showing the dark side of being a manic pixie dream figure. Kanon had become a confident singer in her own right and was prepared to overcome her own timidity and status quo complacency to grow up and go to Vienna. But Keke was still stuck in the same place she was two years ago. And so when she finally confronted her at the end of Episode 6, Kanon was frustrated that Keke helped her regain her performer's motivation, but couldn't do the same for herself.

I was underwhelmed by S3 Episode 6 at first because I thought it was predictable and safe, but looking back on the series as a whole, it's a satisfying way to end Keke's story. Now it was her time to grow up and leave Neverland, but that did not mean she had to give up on her performing goals like she once thought. It's very consistent with Superstar's themes as a whole, about overcoming the barriers one places for oneself, and makes that beautiful line from Mirai no Oto ga Kikoeru finally ring true for Keke: "Even if I'm worried, I'll always love what I love. That's what I decided." She finally grew from being a shallow manic pixie into a person with her own dreams, not just piggybacking off Kanon. Also, I know a lot of people were disappointed that there wasn't some big showdown with her family, but "controlling Asian parents" veers uncomfortably close to Sinophobic stereotypes so I'm glad they did not go that route, especially after SIFAS Lanzhu.

Unfortunately, since her story needed until S3 to resolve, that left S2 Keke, which is a travesty to her character and something I try to forget to preserve what I like about her.

In summary, this all leads to probably my biggest Liella hot take: the KuuKaa pairing needed to die. I know a lot of people loved the iconic Tiny Stars scene. I did too, and at the time, was also disappointed that they stopped interacting with each other much after that. But it's telling that they effectively killed the pairing in Episode 11, the climax of Kanon's arc, by revealing Keke did not understand her the way Chisato did through the sticky takoyaki metaphor. As time went on, they ended up needing to grow apart from each other. Kanon would stop depending on saviors, and Keke would stop defining her life goals through others. It's sad, yes, to see the pairing end, but it's a natural part of life, and I'm glad they did it because the direction they took Superstar instead became a lot more meaningful.

f: 
One of the girls who sought for an "overseas career", but once again not only to pursue her idol dreams. She once again also wanted to get some distance from her home household. A classic LL arc, coined by Mari and prepared already by Birb and her escape attempt.

Once again Kanon the magnetic hero became her first straw to grasp at, before Sumire would take over the scepter. Similar to MargaTomari later.

And once again a chessmaster was to pull the strings in the background: MengMeng. The "interventionist Onee-chan", again from Sunshine: Dia. Seems to be case with Margarete's sister as well. Kanon the magnetic hero once again involved as well.

Keke now enrolling in a idol academy. Margarete staying in Japan and telling her Austrian people to "kick rocks", literal quote. Their Onee-chans not done pulling the strings. Kanon not done executing her magnetism either.

Also Keke's not yet concluded arc's to me a key reason for a S4. Along with Margarte, Sunny Passion, and most of all Ren. And Aria would become a competitor, should she find an idol group at her new school.

So either a full blown S4's required - or they're rly gonna go for a film of Thrice Upon A Time's and Disappearance of Haruhi's proportions: 2h 40m...

(personality-database.com opinion)

A: making a comment just because no one seems to have pointed it out yet, but isn't she way more of a 7w8 than a 7w6? she doesn't seem anxious or in search of safety at all, and a 6 wing would make her a little more down-to-earth. i mean we've only had two episodes so far so of course it might be still too early to judge but the way she defends her ideas and pursues her goals, not backing up even though ren rejected her several times, seems very 7w8 to me

B: so i was scrolling through her wiki for fun when i happened to stumble upon her favorite saying, which goes "there is no time like the present". that really got me thinking, could she actually be an ESFP? i feel like a lot of ESFP characters seem like stereotypical ENFPs. i thought i'd wait until the anime is over, but decided to drop my thoughts now and come back after the anime is finished.

honestly, when i think about it, i definitely see strong Se over Si. "Extroverted Sensing is the part of the psyche that focuses on what is happening right now. It asks, “What is happening now?” (https://personalityindepth.com/extraverted-sensing/) Ne is something that involves lots of brainstorming and abstract concepts, but to me it really seems like keke would get rather overhelmed and bored by all that kind of stuff, unlike for example kanon. Se is also about making a change, creating sensations and pushing boundaries, personal or not. all that campaign stuff she had going on in the first episodes were all about making a change.
also in the first episode after chasing kanon around at the school, she said "you love singing, don't you? i know you love it, i can tell!" note that she had seen kanon singing only once, meaning keke was really able to see and hear the emotion kanon put into singing. i feel like keke is a character who is more able to pick up physical details rather than understand the deeper meaning behind things.
also literally forgetting to ask for a permission to give out all the fliers screams the stereotypical "just taking action and not thinking", which can be quite common to SeNi users. keke has also said and showed how she literally forgets to speak japanese when she gets excited. that could imply to the fact that she just needs to get her point across as Se isn't an easily verbalized function, even if she does it unconsciously. (due to possible SeNi?)
"ESFPs are more likely to be the types that socialize through a shared activity, rather than socializing for the sake of socializing. They won’t want to just sit around and think about something; they’ll want to jump into action and “just do it”. (Please don’t take this to mean Se users never think – healthy Se drives someone toward making a goal or accomplishment a reality, essentially launching them into action) Obviously, an Se user could easily be lazy in regards to something they don’t want to do, or something that doesn’t please their senses." (https://practicaltyping.com/ESFP/)

what about Ne and Ni then? and in general her inf function, Si or Ni? i personally see Ni over Ne. not very strong, but i feel like inferior Ni would fit keke really well. definitely more than inferior Si.
when the student council president election was going on, keke was talking about if they let ren alone run for the president place and therefore become the president, ren is going to prohibit school idols for sure. kanon's answer to that was "hmm.. i guess i could see that. but there has to be some kind of a reason." while kanon was thinking about the possible reason behind ren's actions, keke was thinking about the fact that ren would prohibit idols based on the way she had acted towards school idols before. that comes across as inf Ni to me.
in general, keke doesn't seem to be interested about all the possible "what if's". instead, she has a clear goal in her mind and uses every opportunity what will make her closer to that goal (inf Ni).
keke also is very responsive for things happening in the present moment, especially physically. that wouldn't really sit right if she would have inf Si, since Si isn't raw reactions to stimuli in the present moment.

in conclusion, at the moment i think keke is a SeNi user. i'm not closing off the option of her being simply just an stereotypical ENFP, but just thought i'd drop my thoughts!

C - ENFP: I'm withholding my judgment on her type. But if I interpret Keke as a Ni-Se user, I think her type would be ENXJ, not ESXP. She prioritizes dream and future vision rather than looking at the reality as it is and enjoying it flexibly. She invests every effort to achieve her firm future goals. She looks at people through her intuition and attracts them to her dream. Even if she seems to be good at using Se, it's more of aiding Ni. It is more reasonable to view that Keke is Ni-aux and Se-tert than to view her as ESXP, who frequently uses inferior function. Keke's internal motivation that make her pursue ideal over reality is significantly different from Se-dom such as Rin and Ai.

But there is still a possibility that she is just Ne-Fi user with destination-oriented tendency who uses Te often compared to other Ne users. Because I felt Ne strongly in her curious/distracting personality and the way she provided various "images" and "ideas" related to school idol activities.

In other words, there is a probability that Keke is just ENFP, and even if she is viewed as a Ni-Se user, it is more appropriate to regard her as Ni>Se than Se-dom.

P.S.Her favorite saying is known as "There is no time like the present.". This is the wiki's translation of the original text in her official profile, 「思い立ったが吉日」. But in Japanese, it means exactly "You have to do what you think of right away.". It does not mean she values present over future! It just means that she values behavior and decision.


