
name        : Sakurakoji Kinako
kanji       : 桜小路きな子
color       : #fff442
mbti        : ISFJ(33), ESFJ(19)

(idol.st)
background:
Kinako transferred to Yuigaoka in Tokyo from the boonies of Hokkaido, as she has always dreamed of living in the big city. Kinako lives on her own, and isn't used to the big city. She was recruited by Kanon to become a school idol after getting lost on campus. Kinako thinks school idols are really pretty but thought it would be impossible to become one herself. But she decided to give it a go after seeing how dazzling Liella! was on stage. She becomes the secretary of Yuigaoka's student council, and Liella!'s second lyricist.

Kinako has a habit of referring to herself in the third person and ends her sentence with "~ssu" due to her rural upbringing. Before joining the group, she spent a lot of her time outdoors since her family owns a ranch estate, and as a result she is great with animals. Kinako refers to Harajuku as the Hills people (ヒルズ族).

Kinako has sisters, but how many she has is unknown, as confirmed in Season 2 Episode 6 of the anime.

Kinako becomes the student council president following Ren's graduation.

personality:
Kinako isn't very athletic, and her grades are average. However, Kinako is a hard worker who does not back down easily from challenges. She is very good at understanding animals and how they're feeling. She's very kind, sweet and cheerful, and always happy to offer her support to the group. Despite being sociable, she's also a little shy and awkward at times. She has a tendency to be very loud and can be easily startled. She's somewhat eccentric and comes across as a bit of an airhead. However, she's shown to be level-headed at the end of the day. Her assessments can come off as innocently insensitive since she's honest to a fault. One example is when she thought Kanon was already the club president by virtue of Ren being the student council president and everyone else not being suited for it.

(namu.wiki)

introduction:
N-nice to meet you. My name is Sakurakoji Kinako.
I have come from the northern lands of Hokkaido to enroll in Yuigaoka Girls' High School in Tokyo.
I used to think that I didn't have the flashy side of a school idol, but
seeing the seniors sparkle made me decide to give it my all.
I don't really have any special talents. I'm not good at sports, and my studies are just average...
Ah, but I do often hear people say that I'm amazing at understanding the minds of animals! I guess that's about it.
Since this is my first big city and I don't know where anything is, I am quite anxious, but
I will do my best to become the school idol I admire, just like the seniors. Please take care of me

(wikipedia)
Kinako is a respectful and generous second-year student from Hokkaido who lives on her own and is not used to the big city. She was recruited by Kanon to become a school idol after getting lost on campus. Despite being soft-spoken, Kinako is a hard worker who does not back down easily from challenges. She has a tendency to be very loud and can be easily startled. Kinako has a habit of referring to herself in the third person and ends her sentence with "~ssu" due to her rural upbringing.

(reddit opinion)

A: I could never really "click" with Kinako, sadly. I wanted to like her, there's nothing about her character that's, like, offensive to me, but she just felt sort of lacking or empty. I don't really think I learned what her motivations were; what drove Kinako internally, why she moved from Hokkaido all on her own, etc. I felt she had more of a vibe than a story, like she was meant to fulfil a cute-underclassman role to Kanon and Ren, maybe a straight-man audience surrogate to the other 1st years, and not much more.

I think recruiting Natsumi when they went to Hokkaido would have been good for her, but Kanon flew all the way out to do that instead, which really frustrated me. Her character introduction also mentioned she's good with animals (and her icon is a fox), but that's never relevant in the story which also confused me, especially since cats have been shown a lot in promotional material. And aside from the moment with Ren towards the end, that was really it for Kinako. I don't remember her doing or being anything much else.

Of course I could be wrong, maybe Kinako does have a valid motivation I'm simply missing, but from what I saw she felt half-finished and frequently skipped over. I don't dislike her, but I really feel nothing about her

B:-ssu. I really have no idea how an English dub would try work with Kinako, aside from giving her a country accent. I shudder to imagine that.

Anyways, Sakurakoji Kinako is a character who I feel like was one of the big winners from Season 3. She didn’t make the biggest impression in Season 2, but I liked her well enough to really enjoy how she was developed later on. I’d say she’s the “heart” of the second years.

From her introduction, Kinako had a very hard role to play, that being the bridge between the original 5 members of Liella, and the next set of 4. Her introduction at the start of season 2 was largely focused on her overcoming her own self-deprecation when compared to the rest of Liella. It was nice, but a bit short. It of course felt a bit weird to add in just Kinako, and I think one of the subthemes throughout most of season 2 was best explored through her. How do you overcome the strangeness of having a story progress over multiple years?

Kinako’s later role as the heart of the second years really helped explore characters like Natsumi, although she ended up getting even more screen time in season 3. While I sort of wished we got more time to see her grow with the original 5, the second years’ dynamic in season 2 was very nice.

However, after the Hokkaido episode, Kinako mostly faded into the background for the rest of the seasom, and continuing into most of season 3. The same could be said for characters like Chisato and Ren, and to an extent Sumire. While I was a bit bummed about that, Kinako’s episode in season 3 really turned it all around.

We got to see a ton of growth from both her and Ren, and we got to see her in the center position once again. It was a wonderful episode to show how these characters have grown and changed, and finally answers the underlying question with Kinako’s character. How do these girls affect each other over the long time they spend together? All of the other shows (save Hasunosora) only take place during one year, so Superstar has the unique ability to really show much longer-term character development. And it works very well.

Kinako’s relationships with most of the third years are introduced in her first episode. She really looks up to all of them. Unlike, say in Mu’s or Aqours, I think Liella has a pretty ingrained idea of having senpai/kouhai relationships (Now that I mention it, Kinako’s introduction literally has her calling Kanon senpai). I don’t think it’s until the very end that she has a heart to heart with Ren, one of the most “senpai-like” characters for her, that she starts to feel like she can treat them differently. (This might be completely wrong by the way…)

As for the second years, Kinako definitely cares for them all dearly. They spent a lot of time together in season 2, and I think she definitely treasure them all. I think her overflowing kindness probably struck a chord somewhere with both Shiki and Mei. They’re probably both used to having people treat them differently, so having someone like Kinako to care about them probably means a lot.

Natsumi is also probably not used to someone like Kinako. We see in season 3 that she had major self-esteem issues, and a constant problem with failing at things she wanted to do. Considering her relationship with Tomari was a bit rocky during the events of season 2, it’s safe so say that Kinako might’ve been one of the only people close to her that truly believed in her. I’d like to think that the main reason that Natsumi believed she could really succeed with Liella was because of Kinako.

Considering Tomari’s importance to Natsumi, I’d like to think that there’s something to say about her and Kinako, but they never really got a chance to interact, same for Margarete. I would love any conjecture about how they’d all grow together after the third years graduate, but maybe that’s best saved for a movie :)

TLDR: 92/10 for the Hokkaido girl. Non-Chan does a great job with her (the clip of her talking about Kinako’s rock song while everyone is freaking out around her is very funny). KinaNatsu SSS-tier ship (only reason it’s not higher is due to a lack of more official content).

P.S. do any native Japanese speakers know of Kinako’s style of speech is anywhere close to how northerners talk? I haven’t studied hokkaidoben at all.

C:I have mixed feelings about Kinako. She's nice, and I thought her being this complete newbie who represented the ethos of "Anyone can be an idol" made for a nice contrast and challenge to Liella's founding members who had been pursuing their musical goals from the beginning and represent the reality of "this actually requires a lot of hard work and dedication." It was an interesting conflict that could have made for a really compelling Season 2. Unfortunately, the actual Season 2 never lived up to that potential (like, why did Keke have to be reminded of how similar she was to Kinako at the start?!) and Kinako's arc got forgotten and overshadowed by the multiple other characters and plotlines. She did finally get her own episode, but it was the third last episode of Season 3, and felt too little, too late.

To her credit, unlike the Sunshine benchwarmer characters we discussed previously, she at least had a character arc that lasted more than one episode. Her realizing "My friends are my power!" would have been a nice conclusion in that context, as that's more than a lot of other characters in this franchise get. However, in the context of Liella, after two seasons, she was in the same place as a performer as Kanon was after only 3 episodes, and Kanon's arc ended with her realizing she needed to stop hiding behind her friends and believe in her own voice.

Which is my biggest issue with Kinako. She's too passive. She goes from being overly deferential to the founding members to being overly deferential to Margarete, who's a year younger than her. We don't really get a sense of who she is as a person, what she wants in life. Perhaps she just wants to support her friends, and isn't interested in pursuing music in the long term. If so, that's fine, but that should have been a part of her character arc; she isn't OG Liella, but she can pursue her own path in life through her idol experience. Her telling Ren she didn't want to write a sad song could have been an interesting point of conflict, since sadness was what motivated Ren and the other founding members in the first place, but like too many things post Season 1, this plot point was underbaked.

In fact, Kinako is one of the reasons why I believe Season 2 would have been better if they had a 7 member Liella rather than 9. It's jarring that they had her set up as an important main character in the first 3 episodes, only to forget about her because they had too many other characters to introduce. And the infamous S2E6 robbed her of much needed character development through her interactions with Natsumi.

D:
Hokkaido Kara Tokyo he (I don’t know the rest of the lines sung in Ryouran), it’s KinaKina time!

Kinako is a character that didn’t really catch my attention unfortunately, started as someone who was really indecisive and had a lot of doubts in herself, and upon joining Liella, she had basically Keke level of stamina, but despite her athletic shortcomings, she is a really hard working girl with unquestionable perseverance, for which despite her clumsy and rough start, she has shown a lot of growth throughout the series, even if it wasn’t notorious at first.

She had her doubts when she began as an idol, worrying too much about catching up with her senpais, which is something the 4 of them worried about, on top of worrying about her performance creating the misguided belief of Liella’s training to be harsh, but despite all that she kept trying and improving, on top of being later encouraged by Mei, and in the end, her efforts paid off, she was able to keep up with the training regime. I was surprised she was picked as the lyricist though, but it made sense as the other of her same year had other talents they excelled at. I do feel she got robbed on her arc in Hokkaido though.

She has a really lively personality, she can get excited quickly but the same applies for being frightened, her sudden emotional swings were really fun to see, like in S3 when she thought they were easily going to win LL until she realised they were 8 members. Her hardworking personality also made her a fitting character for secretary and later on student council, which while I found surprising, Ren saying she was like her on being earnest and stubborn made sense, in that regard they are alike, her arc in S3 to overcome her doubts and accept a big responsibility while knowing her weak points was impressive. On the stubborn par I found it funny that as a president she was attempting to make the 3rd years stay instead of graduating.

As Camel-cultist said, I find it weird that we never get her motive on why she joined, she just was there because she was caught by Liella’s performance?

Overall her character is really entertaining, but I’m not too interested in her unfortunately. Non-chan did a fantastic job on her though. Unfortunately I don’t have a favourite individual song from her.

E: Kinako is the one character who suffers from the writers not knowing what to do with her and the cast being too bloated the most and I'd argue that she has it worse than kanan and hanayo. She rarely if ever actually contributed anything to the plot and even her personality didn't command any presence like her other 3 gen mates who stood out and sadly outshined her like crazy. Like off the top of my head I can easily list down a decent amount of aspects about mei shiki and natsumis personalities but with kinako I can't even list 3. 90% of her screentime was her just being there to the point that I feel like she exists to just fill numbers and make the group have the standard 9 or more members per love live group. Im not one of those people who aggressively believe that liella should've stayed 5 members but with how superstar and alot of the other girls were written and as it went on it felt like even the writers were blindsided by the addition of new members that they probably wished that liella stayed at 5 members to make the writing easier. Before any kinako fans get pissed I'll clarify that I don't hate her I literally feel nothing towards her it's just disappointing that she couldve been a really good character but nothing was done with her.