
name        : Mei Yoneme
kanji       : 米女 メイ
color       : #ff3535 
mbti        : ISFP(38), ISTP(4)

(idol.st)
background:
When Mei was younger, she was often mischaracterized as a delinquent due to her "scary eyes", which in reality turns out to be a side effect of her poor eyesight. This affected the way she perceived herself, and thought she didn't suit being a school idol, despite liking them a lot. She initially enrolled in Yuigaoka to watch Liella! from a distance as a fan, and had no intention in joining the group until she was personally invited by the club members after they saw how passionate she was about them.

Mei has been friends with Shiki since middle school.

She becomes the president of the School Idol Club following Chisato's graduation.

personality:
Mei speaks to strangers in a rather abrasive tone and comes off as frightening to other students, but she is actually very shy and has a diehard adoration for school idols that she keeps secret out of fear of being judged. Mei gets embarrassed when she is called "cute".

After joining, Mei starts to come out of her shell, and becomes much more comfortable being herself around her new friends. Her tone of speaking changes from sarcastic and dry to calm and soft during live performances. She is very close with Shiki, and confides in her regularly about her troubles.

(namu.wiki)

introduction:
He-hey. My name is Yoneme Mei. Please don't stare at me too much.
C-cute? Of course not! Ever since I was little, my gaze has always been fierce, and it even scared my friends.
To begin with, I don't really like it. Talking about me like that. That
's why I wasn't really keen on starting as a school idol at first.
I never even thought it would suit me. W-of course I liked it.
Shining, all the school idols on stage smiling, having dreams, and so I thought...
Of course, I don't think I'm a good fit, but still...
as long as I step onto the stage, I'll do my best... so please cheer me on. Got it?

(wikipedia)
Mei is a second-year student who is often mistaken as a delinquent due to her "scary eyes", which turns out to be a side effect of her poor eyesight. She speaks to strangers in a rather abrasive tone and comes off as frightening to other students, but is actually timid and has a hidden long-standing admiration for idols.

(reddit opinion)

A: Oi! Kiiterunoka? Words said moments before disaster. It’s Mei time!

The stalker and Liella superfan, Mei might be one of the most hardcore idol fan of the series, in the same level as Nico is, as she owned the legendary idol dvd that Nico had, and the rest of her collection at home is nothing to look down at. Her stalking moments in the science club were funny, but what was the best moments for her fan self is how she carries a lot of blades with her to cheer on Liella’s or Tomakanote’s concert, she’s truly amazing.

Her personality is quite interesting, she is seen as a tough character due to her informal and a bit aggressive way of speaking and her eye squinting which people might consider to be an angry glare, when in reality she just has bad eyesight and refuses to show her cute and excited side of her to anyone but Shiki.

Her screen time in S2, while a bit lacklustre unfortunately, it represented her quite well, she was a fan of idols, she loved Liella, but her own standards of what an idol should be impeded herself to become one, she cared about how other people saw her as so she had to hide the fact that she liked idols to the other people and refuse joining the club when Shiki and Kinako plotted the club invitation, but deep down she was always supportive and caring, shown on how she encouraged Kinako to keep moving forward and believe in herself despite Kinako’s doubts in her capabilities and worries about dragging Liella down.

Talking about her relationships, we of course have to start with Shiki, as they know and complement each other really well, just as Shiki was plotting to drag Mei in the club and make her speak honestly, Mei knew when to catch Shiki red handed and convince her to join the club together. In S3 it’s shown even more, how Mei really wanted Shiki to be the centre, and got really excited about it, despite knowing she always avoided the spotlight, but still didn’t give up on her and made a song which represented her, Special Color arc definitely was peak for their relationship. With her being capable of playing the piano, she also became a composer for the group which gave her a connection with Ren, which I found interesting, as I didn’t expect her to be the one who Ren chose to confide her gaming addiction and entrust the key, I may have underestimated her, but she is really capable of reassuring people when the situation requires it. With Keke, they share the same passion with school idols, and their excitement about Love Live, I love their moments together when they share the same braincell. With Chisato, unfortunately, it was more of Chisato feeling represented with Mei rather than them interacting together, they could definitely have developed more into that but I guess we have to take what we had. She really cares about the seniors, as in the last episodes of S3 all the second years were working hard to create their best song to give their seniors their last victory.

Her assuming the role of president after Chisato graduated was definitely the best choice, she definitely has the passion about idols and Shiki to support her, and she definitely has the initiative the other members lack. Her responding to Chisato’s final quote also fits this case, and while I thought she would be the one to respond to Keke’s “Treasure your Passion” which Shiki took, “Don’t stop running” can be applied to her as well.

Overall Mei is a character that I like a lot, but she’s in the middle for me. Akane Gokoro is my favourite solo song of her, it did impress me before getting into Liella so it has a special spot for me.

B: Love her, she’s jointly in first place, alongside Sumire and Margarete (it's too hard to decide between them). I’m not great at describing why I like characters, but she’s just so engaging to me, and I can definitely see parts of myself in her. Her struggles with her perception of herself, and how she thinks other people see her & her interests is really relatable, especially how she's able to encourage other people whilst not being quite so confident in herself. The way she changes from a more aggressive, defensive girl in early season 2, to season 3 where she's capable of lifting others (Shiki) up & isn't even slightly afraid of showing her friends who she truly is is inspiring. Maybe I'm just easy to please but I really enjoy that character growth. In general I just love how she's portrayed throughout the show - I especially love the more delinquent elements sprinkled throughout. She was totally prepared to fight Keke's sister & Tomari in Season 3. And her becoming club president at the end of Season 3 is such an amazing conclusion to her character, it's so perfectly fitting for her - there was no better choice.

I think her character design is also excellent, there’s just something about her bright red hair, catlike demeanour & range of expression that's really appearing. I think she has a really unique face, evident not only in her eyes, but also the way her smile sometimes lacks confidence or looks a little wonky, or how her face lights up when she's happy. I know a lot of this can be said about other love live characters but there's something that's different to me about the way Mei does it. If I was better with my words I could gush about how Superstar's bright colourful art style & character designs are by far the best in the franchise, but I'll spare everyone even more incoherent rambling lol.

As for her songs, I'm not typically into much love live music, but CatChu! is the most perfect subunit to date. Kanon's my 4th favourite character (behind the previously mentioned top 3) so the only thing that could possibly top CatChu! for me is if she was replaced with Margarete lol. Alternate is the best song in the franchise, and Mei's vocals in Zenryoku Riot are exceptional. Her solo song from Second Sparkle is good, and her upcoming solo for Aspire sounds so great that I can't even put it into words. I am extremely grateful to whoever decided to give Mei, of all characters, that genre of music, and I am extremely looking forward to playing that song on repeat.

Mei's the reason I got back into the franchise, and also the reason I have the friends I have now. After not engaging much with it post Superstar Season 1, I happened upon some art with characters I didn't recognise (2nd generation Liella) in uniforms I did recognise (the Yuigaoka uniforms). The two girls with bright colourful hair stood out immediately, and I needed to know more about them. Their designs, expressions & poses were so intriguing to me, and lead to me getting back into the franchise primarily through Superstar season 2. I became active in some Love Live Discord servers around this time, and through them I met friends who have quite literally changed my life, at a time when I really needed it. In part I have her to thank for that.

TLDR: Autism to autism communication go crazy, Mei is peak.

C: I was thinking of a witty one liner to start this week, but I’ve been too distracted with Bluebird stuff to come up with one. Whatever. Mei time!

Yoneme Mei is honestly a pretty straightforward character, at least at first. Mei’s introductory episode gave her the nice dichotomy between her normal brash personality and being a hyper Liella fan girl. Her interactions with Shiki were really nice, and we got to see a bit more of her complexity over the course of the episode. But it wasn’t really until the later episodes in season 2 and 3 that I really fell in love with her character.

Part of Mei’s identity is hiding a lot of her emotions and interests because she’s embarrassed or doesn’t know how to communicate them very well. It takes someone like Shiki to understand her and help her move forward from that point. But in turn, I think Mei is very keyed in to the emotions of people around her. We see this when she identifies Shiki’s wanting to be in Liella, and in season 3 in their episode again. Which is why I find Ren’s video game episode in season 2 really fun.

We see Ren confide in Mei of all people. Now, this may be because Mei likes playing games a lot as well, but we the audience never see when Mei tells the rest of Liella. In any case, I find it really telling how well Mei is able to handle it, and over the course of the episode, they have fun together. Another similar moment is when they’re all in Hokkaido together to make a song, and Mei reveals she knows a bit of composing and can play the piano. Again, this isn’t something that you just pick up in a few weeks (unless you’re a prodigy or something). It speaks to Mei having a lot that she just doesn’t often show to people.

I’d like to think that a lot of Mei’s character arc that we don’t see is her learning how to share herself emotionally with her friends. Getting used to having more people around her that care about her is probably not easy, but definitely changes her for the better. By season 3, she’s able to help Shiki communicate her own self (as reserved as it may be) to the audience as a center.

Mei still be a bit brash and assertive, but she definitely cares a lot for the rest of the second years and Liella. Out of all of the second years, she definitely has the most passion for being a school idol, and that sense of understanding probably pushed Chisato to decide on Mei to be the next president. Considering that Kinako was going to be the student council prez. I think it makes perfect sense.

Something I really would’ve liked to see (or I assume happened but just off screen) was Mei starting to treat the rest of the third years as being her friends, and not just her senpai in Liella. I think that Mei probably had some sort of inferiority complex towards the rest of the first years, and it’s why the episode where they were considering dropping out to let the original 5 have the best chance at winning was actually very well written. All of the 2nd years had their own reasons but felt like they weren’t good enough.

I’ve talked at length about ShikiMei already, but they really do play off of each other very well. Their dynamic is probably one of the most well-rounded in the show, maybe tied with ChisaKanon or KeSumi. Unfortunately, again due to having to fit 11 characters with several arcs in season 3, we don’t get much in the way of interactions between Mei and the first years. I bet that she and Margarete would butt heads pretty often, since they can both be very standoffish. But I think Tomari would really respect her passion and intensity for School Idols.

I really love that Yabu-Chan (Mei’s Seiyuu) wears Mei’s hairstyle in Liella programs, it looks really nice. As a redhead myself I also really like seeing other redheads in anime too.

TLDR: 96/10 for the hothead. Yabuchan is great, and ShikiMei legendary Z-tier ship.

as an extra note, most of the second years talk slightly differently. Kinako ends her phrases with -ssu, Natsumi often says desu no, and Mei talks like a tomboy, saying “ze” and whatnot. If you’re giving Superstar a rewatch, pay attention to their speech and see if you can tell if it’s different!

D: Unfortunately I don't really like Mei that much. She was never going to rank too high for me anyway, the whole "shy yet emotionally unstable otaku" trope isn't one I like, but I walked away from characters like Hanayo and at the very least respected them. There was growth, independence, clear personality and interests.

Mei on the other hand constantly felt like she was missing something to me. Obviously there was her relationship with Shiki, which was nice, but it felt like it lacked so much context. Why did Mei fall out with her old friends? She became closer to Shiki as a result, but why did it happen in the first place? I felt it only happened so staff could have two characters crushing on each other in Liella. Which is nice, but I honestly feel they lack chemistry, like their only uniting point was being in love with each other. I don't hate them as a pairing, but I don't really feel anything for it, either.

I also just feel like I don't know Mei. She plays piano but it's not really relevant and I don't remember seeing why she took it up, she was sort of "friends" with Ren but it felt very insubstantial and got brought back to Shiki getting jealous. The point I'm getting at is, Mei felt constantly skipped over and lacking. Not necessarily her fault, there's room for her to grow (what if she confesses to Shiki to overcome her bluntness?), but I never felt I saw it happen.

Honestly, the more I look back at S2+3 through these threads, the less impressed I get. Not because I hate the new characters, but because I keep having to say "well I want to like them, but they felt so rushed and messy." I think Mei deserved better.

E: Liella! is full of insecure girls who struggle to figure out their emotions so Mei being the hardcore Liella fangirl makes her a very fun and interesting character.

Her dichotomy between hardcore fangirl and rough delinquent type with a hint of tsundere is hilarious and initially it seem like her struggle is going to accepting that she's good/cute enough to be a school idol herself, but that's not really the issue. While she struggles with being called cute, her primary concern above Liella is leaving Shiki alone.

Episode 4 is a really good because it's about 2 characters who want the best for each other and the conflict is the natural tension that occurs when one of them think the other is better off without her. And at the end of the episode we learn that the situation is the inverse of what we expected, Shiki is the one who doesn't think she's cute enough to be in Liella, but Mei and Shiki assure each other of the other's cuteness and that they'll be together forever as part of Liella. A very satisfying, very cheesy, ending.

With her recruitment out of the way let's talk about why I love Mei.

Mei's status as an underclassmen and hardcore fan of Liella gives her a special place amongst the entire Love Live cast. Her very existence is worldbuilding and hype (and aura) in the universe of Superstar. Her introduction is her fangirling over Liella in a parasocial, somewhat weird way. Immediately this makes Liella more renowned than they were in the previous season. Even before Shiki outright says it, it's easy to infer that Mei joined Yuigaoka because of Liella. While we know µ's was successful in saving their school by becoming school idols, and that Aqours made a very good effort and came very close to saving theirs, but were ultimately unable to, Mei is the walking, talking, proof of what Liella was able to accomplish in the first season, even though they weren't able to win Love Live. In that vein, it is a perfect narrative decision to have Mei join after Episode 3, where Liella suffered a crushing defeat by Margarete and the student body reassures Liella that the school idols are the pride of Yuigaoka, and the students will always believe in Liella.

I love that Mei and Ren become unlikely accomplices in "UR Hazuki Ren" it's a new fun dynamic for both of them. Mei ending up being responsible for keeping the elegant Ren on track and preventing her from overindulging in her new hobby. Mei's the voice of reason that ends up giving Ren the encouragement to come out to the rest of her group. We also learn that Mei has been playing piano since she was little which in the Love Live setting makes her a composer. Mei's gaming hobby does come up again in season 3, but I like that it's a background detail and not her main gimmick.

Mei being a huge school idol nerd is really fun too, I'm glad Keke and her have each other's backs on that. Together they want to spread the greatness of school idols and they don't tolerate disrespect towards them. As a Love Live fan and especially as a Liella fan I'm right there with them.

Of course her relationship with Shiki is beautiful too. How they care for each other is really sweet, Mei is more subtle but she also puts Shiki above anything else. "Special Color" is so good and that scene of Mei talking to Shiki right before the song lives rent free in my mind.

I also just really like the 2nd years/2nd of Liella in general. The way they're always supporting each other from before they all even join to the end of the anime is heartwarming. Mei encouraging Kinako to join Liella and Kinako being intimidated by Mei's rough and anti-social attitude are endearing. The way Mei butts heads with Margarete is also funny, Mei had a bad first impression of Margarete, even moreso than most because Margarete looks down on school idols. Although Mei and Margarete have opposing views, it's nice that Mei tries to be a good senpai and welcome Margarete into Liella at the end.

Mei at the end of the anime is slated to take over as the president of the school idol club and is now Liella's composer. I really like this because it shows that Liella is continuing and changing year after year but there is something special being passed down through the generations, into an unknown future. Liella was important to Mei, and Mei is important to Liella's evolution.

There's more to say about Mei's character but I want to end by commenting on some of her other aspects. When we initially saw her design I was a skeptic. Her bright red hair stood out harshly against the original members of Liella. I also wanted to know why she didn't have a ribbon or uh, socks for that matter. While we may not know the answer I now think these design choices make her stand out in a good way. The gorgeous animation of Superstar made her one of the prettiest characters in Love Live. Every song she's in has a cut of her I replay because she looks stunning when the budget gets cranked up all the way.

And of course her voice is phenomenal, thanks to her seiyuu. The range of fangirl to tsundere to embarrassed to delinquent is made possible by Akane Yabushima's great work. And as great as her VA is, her singing might be better, her solo sections as well as Mei's solo song "Akane Gokoro" are lovely to listen to

F: Mei now this gen's "Pana": Both with "impulsivity issues" ("Tsundere", but intensely subverted again). We never got to see how Pana did in her idol research club - now we'd have the opportunity, in case the producers grant us a S4 or film.

Kanon graduated and lives now in Vienna, so both commuting and communicating will be a bit of an effort. Meanwhile many arcs are still not concluded:

SunnyPa's island in danger

The true full family matters to Margarete...

...and to Ren...

...the latter including Ren's mom's former idolmates director and maid, and thus also Yuigaoka and its closed predecessor. A true can of worms...

and all of them reached out for "magnetic hero" Kanon...

...who's now living far away. Can Mei step in...?

The "lancer" as a teammate of the lead, here a "magnetic hero" again. The "lancer" can kick in doors (see Chika in "Young Dreamer") and fulfil the lead for some time (Chika again, who also was a "magnetic hero"). But Chika was also only a "decoy protag" with Mari as the true lead.

Mei now needs to keep the "lance" while grabbing the "lead" temporarily at the same time. The longer a lancer manages hold the lead, the more likely he's gonna grow...

Mei already proved her strength by carrying Shiki in a person crisis. Probably not the first time. Hence Mei's "bear paw" emblem, i.e. "to bear".

Imagine Shiki had kicked Mei outa the science club i.e. broke up with her, and no Liella group had intervened... (before Superstar already Haruhi Suzumiya adopted Evangelion's female school uniforms. Haruhi who invented the "SOS school club"...)

Now Mei would have to carry the whole club and even school, like Kanon before. Can she do it? Can she make it...?

Another bear, Balu from the Jungle Book, had to leave his comfort zone to fight Shere Khan the tiger. He eventually succeeded by grabbing a burning stick - because Shere Khan feared the fire...

Mei comes from the "opposite" comfort zone ("comfort" = also "solace") and would have to "dim" her inner fire a bit for a controlled counter attack against "tigers". The bare yet not so simple necessities...

So Mei's one of those to set the stage for a S4 or film....

(personality-database.com opinion)

A:  Mei tends to process everything internally, staying quiet unless she has something specific to say. She’s analytical and cautious, often keeping her real thoughts and feelings private until she feels emotionally safe.
Her initial assessment of herself “I don’t suit being a school idol” is based not on a logical internal model of self-perception. = Ti