
name        : Natsumi Onitsuka
kanji       : 鬼塚 夏美
color       : #ff51c4
mbti        : ESFP(44), ENTJ(31)

(idol.st)
background:
Natsumi was a small L-Tuber before debuting as a school idol. She hopes being a school idol will help her gain more of a following on her channel so she can earn more money. After losing a lot of her money to the stock market, she works at a few part time jobs, including "Lber Eats" and a moving company (as shown in Season 2 Episode 3 and Season 2 Episode 4 respectively). Season 2 Episode 5 reveals that she does not have many followers as a L-Tuber, which prompts her to become a "producer" for Liella! and upload vlogs of them on L-Tube in order to make more money, as they generate more views on L-Tube than her own personal channel.

Natsumi has a younger sister named Tomari Onitsuka.

personality:
Natsumi has a friendly demeanour, but can also be rather manipulative and selfish; she initially gets involved with Liella! to take advantage of their growing popularity to obtain money and internet fame through ad revenue as a social media influencer. Somewhat similarly to Sumire, Natsumi also spent her childhood trying to break into different fields of entertainment before eventually giving up, albeit with the sole intention of making money. After spending enough time with the group and enjoying a weekend at the Sakurakoji family's cabin in Hokkaido, she took a genuine liking to the charm of school idols.

When it comes to Tomari, Natsumi constantly praises her when she gets the chance to.

Natsumi frequently ends her sentences with "~desu no". Her catchphrase is "OniNatsu!"

(namu.wiki)

introduction:
Oni-nats! The daily miscellaneous setter . Your heart's Oni nutrient, also known as Oni-nats, I am Natsumi Onitsuka!
A popular L-Tuber[10] I, who was active as a [10] , have now made my debut as a school idol.
It is a dream collaboration that I never thought would happen, and with this, my followers have doubled in an instant. I can smell it, yes, I can smell money.
My favorite food is, of course, my favorite original smoothie!
I drink it every day and think of a secret plan to make Liella! even more attractive from every angle.
If you like Natsumi like this, please subscribe to the channel and like.

(wikipedia)
Natsumi is a second year student who is also an aspiring "L-Tuber" and decided to become a school idol to boost her online following and make a profit. She has a friendly demeanor, but can also be rather manipulative and selfish. Natsumi frequently ends her sentences with "desu no".

(reddit opinion)

A: She's the most interesting of the new girls to me, mostly because she acts like a stereotypical greedy rich character like Wario or Mr. Krabs, but she's really a Raimi Peter Parker like schmuck who works crappy delivery gigs and tries to chase fleeting Youtube bucks. Her devaluing herself because she feels she can't do anything else felt like a natural extension of Kanon's story, except she didn't have the same single-minded committment and gave up early on a lot of the things she tried. I definitely get why so many people came around to her in S3 after her Ebenezer Scrooge scene where she proclaimed she only loved money.

Still, I feel like they didn't go as far as they should have or may have wanted to. It felt like class conflict in Love Live was too much for the higher ups, so instead of her putting dirt in the eye of her Uber Eats clone, her story resolution is...learning to open up to her sister? As it is, it feels like her arc was left unresolved. Her proclaiming the S2 victory was the first time she felt like she won anything made it seem like she was carried to victory rather than contributed to it, and even that felt pointless due to Tomari then trying to stop her as if they lost the past season.

Most of the post S1 writing was so messy.

B:Natsumi koko desu no! Natsumi koko desu no! (How that bug Shiki made can amplify phone sound so loud will be a mystery for me).

The last one to join the second gen of Liella, Natsumi is in a weird spot for me. She is entertaining for sure, and possibly the most realist of the members, the money grind for her is on a different scale, but that was kinda bothering for me as well, and most of the time, it just feels like she was just there.

I feel like she doesn’t bring anything to Liella, I know they don’t need to have a talent to be in the club, but unlike the other members of her year, the things she is capable of didn’t contribute much to the group, she’s so obsessed in filming Liella but we never see what happens with her recordings, and her editing skills were not exactly shown as it was with Rina on the Dive MV, which is honestly disappointing, and whenever she was doing something on the laptop, it was often the scandal or something, which really didn’t do great on the impression of her character to me.

However I do think she does have a lot of willpower, she attempted to chase so many dreams which she failed, yet she didn’t gave up and found new ones to pursue, and even when she decided to quit and go for the money approach, she never gave up on hope and took another chance on chasing a dream after being inspired by Kanon, this time a shared one with all the members of the club.

She is also a kind of unique character in terms of her personality and her weird obsession with money leading to creating weird food (seriously a takoyaki smoothie?), and also had such an evil face when she was plotting a scheme with Shiki, she definitely can be cold blooded at times, to not forget about how she seems to be sassy at Sumire, like when she said the number of reliable senpais would go down or the Gusokumoshiii bribe. Speaking about cold, she is so insistent to take a selfie that she froze in the middle of snow, girl is truly brave in what she wants.

It wasn’t until S3 that she got the development she needed and her backstory, why she cared so much about money, her rough path of failing dreams, she wanted to be a cool sister for Tomari, but never able to get any results, and gave up to the more consistent path of money to suit one’s needs, which in the end Tomari still did better than her, but I’ll talk about her perspective in the next discussion, they have a gap in their relationship due to Natsumi choosing the path of chasing a dream again, which they solved it with the buildup for Dazzling Game was great.

As for her relationships it’s clear she deeply cares about her sister, and she respects the majority of her senpais, even Margarete, as she didn’t hesitate to go with Kinako to ask for additional training with her kouhai, and of course had a great bond with her fellow classmates, she was supportive to Kinako when she didn’t know if she wanted to join the group or not, or during the first Hokkaido episode, she can truly be a caring character when her obsession doesn’t trigger.

The message of Ren of “Never stop dreaming” while Natsumi was holding her book of former dreams was a really sweet moment to end with her chapter, honestly S3 wrapped up all character arcs really well.

Overall, Natsumi is on the latter half of my favourite list close to the bottom, she a decent character, but she didn’t do a great impression on me.

As we’re reaching the end of Liella’s discussions, OP what will you do once we finish them? Are you going to go for Hasunosora? Or are you going to change topic? Honestly if you feel well enough and have time, I would like to see the stats of the other group discussions that you did for Nijigasaki.

C:
Natsumi is a really fun character, even the way Aya Emori says "Money" is funny. Natsumi's obsession with money sets her apart from other LL gremlins, heck, no main character in the series is as obsessed with money besides maybe her sister. It was amusing to see her work various part time jobs in the first half of season 2, and I'm a bit sad to see that aspect of her get dropped (although it's reasonably explained by a growth in both her character and finances).

Natsumi is constantly coming up with schemes to make money in Season 2, and unfortunately she gives a bad impression by taking advantage of Liella's naivety and popularity to boost her own channel's views. I do think she gets off too lightly here as this issue unfortunately kinda gets swept under the rug after she joins Liella which is about an episode and a half later. It gives Natsumi a lasting bad impression and I think this is the main issue people have with her which is understandable because she benefits a lot from Liella's (particularly Kanon's) kindness while she still tries to come up with unsavory ideas to bring in money and even suggests (with Shiki) to poison Margarete.

Despite her greed Natsumi ultimately comes off as an endearing character because she's an incredibly hard worker. Even before she joins Liella we see Natsumi exhausted doing delivery jobs. She stays up late editing videos. She even literally breaks her back once. In season 3 she also practices at night with Kinako and Margarete to get ready for the Love Live prelims. Her underhanded tactics and her working to the point her bones break make up much of the humor in season 2, which does make her more likable but it has an unfortunate side effect of her character not being taken seriously when it should.

Natsumi isn't just a funny money gremlin. Her arc is very important in exploring Superstar's theme of "dreams". Natsumi at the start of season 2 is a girl without a dream. Even at 15 years old her many childhood dreams have been crushed one by one because they were physically impossible for her or she lacked the skill or talent needed for them. After a certain point, she finally arrived at what she could do, which was to make as much money as possible, and one avenue available to her was making a y-sorry, L-Tube channel. Natsumi feels like she's given up, she doesn't think she's going to be rich necessarily, she just wants to retire comfortably. When she hears that Liella is really popular and they're in the same school, Natsumi uses Liella to boost the attention her small youtube channel gets. But after hanging around the 2nd generation Liella members for a training camp she finds herself wanting the dream they have, even joining in on their practice beyond filming them.

It's easy to see that Natsumi does have a dream or at least a goal of getting MONEY but to Natsumi what she's doing is mundane, normal, ordinary. Maybe it's a last resort for her. However, the important thing about Natsumi is that she doesn't feel worthy of having a dream. Despite Natsumi's cheerful, humorous and hardworking nature, a childhood of being incapable of getting past the first hurdle has completely destroyed her self-esteem. Natsumi encourages and supports Kinako and the other 1st years to accomplish their dreams, but Natsumi knows that she can't stand beside them. At least until Kanon teleports to Hokkaido and tells Natsumi she's wrong and that it's only by working together that school idols can chase their dreams. This moment gets criticized a lot because Kanon arriving at the 1st year's training camp at Hokkaido is incredibly contrived, but the scene itself is really sweet and beautifully drawn.

Natsumi might be a greedy little shit sometimes but seeing her finally find a dream makes me happy. I'm also happy to see her L-Tube channel has become popular in season 3. We also learn that she has a sister in the 3rd season, and that gives Natsumi more to do as well. I might talk more about it when it's Tomari's turn but no promises. Given Natsumi's arc it's just natural that she ends up recieving Ren's message to continue dreaming. One other thing I want to mention is Aya Emori's performance. I just love the way Natsumi talks, both her normal tone which is very fun and goofy, and also her softer, more serious tone.

D: Oninatsu! It’s Natsumi time desu no.

Onitsuka Natsumi probably had the biggest character improvement over the course of season 3. It doesn’t feel like she does a whole lot in season 2, aside from being a slightly money-oriented Nico/Kasumi-type character, but we get a lot of time with her and her sister in season 3 to really flesh out her character and turn her into a very enjoyable second year.

Natsumi’s introduction, to be honest, didn’t move me very much. It’s not too hard to get a grasp on the type of character she was made out to be in season 2. At least differently from Nico and Kasumi, Natsumi had to learn to be a school idol. This made it a bit more enjoyable to watch her come to terms with her own desires, and move on from doing it just for the money.

But after that, we don’t get a whole lot from Natsumi. She often got into hot water with the rest of the girls for being a bit too overeager to monetize Liella, but as she began to enjoy being an idol more and more, she stopped being quite as invested in that sort of thing. I think that the slightly toned-down version of Natsumi that we get by the end of the season is the best thus far.

When season 3 was coming out, I was really interested in how Tomari was going to be introduced. Having Natsumi’s younger sister arrive was going to be strange when she had never (as far as I can remember) been mentioned in season 2. But man did Natsumi and Tomari’s history completely recontextualize everything we knew about her.

Maybe I just have a soft spot for her, but I can deeply relate to Natsumi’s emotional journey as a child. Having all sorts of big dreams, then not feeling like you’re good enough at anything, and eventually just trying to focus on making as much money as possible, I relate a lot to that journey, and it was really special to see how she changed from Tomari’s POV after she joined Liella.

Natsumi’s arc in season 3 largely focused around her repairing her relationship with her sister. There’s a lot to say from both sides of this story, so I’ll save some of it for Tomari’s discussion, but Natsumi pushing Natsumi to do something she can believe in, and learn how to embrace her own fears is a really good message, and was definitely one of the highlights of the season.

Natsumi’s relationships with the rest of Liella are pretty interesting. I’d like to think that she can relate a lot to Sumire’s struggles of self-worth, and I kind of really wish they got to talk about it instead of butting heads a lot. While Natsumi also definitely looks up to a lot of the third years, I wonder when she exactly started to consider them as friends, and not just her groupmates. The other shows tended to give time for these sorts of character moments, but Liella has had a lot going on…

As for the second years, I’ve talked about most of Natsumi’s relationships already in the other weeks, so I’ll restate the important bits. I think her analytical side (very interested in money) makes her understand Shiki really well, but over the course of the show (preferably through Kinako) she learned how to once again embrace her passionate side. She probably sometimes butts heads with Mei if they disagree on something.

As for Margarete, I bet Natsumi probably didn’t forgive her until she saw how Tomari had become friends with her. I think seeing Margarete soften up and be a good friend for her little sister convinced her that she had grown past being a bit of a jerk previously. And while Natsumi definitely had a soft spot for her precious little sister, she couldn’t bring herself to try and repair their relationship even during the events of season 2, probably because she was scared of hurting her again. It’s a bit sad, but it adds a lot of complexity to Natsumi’s character, and it makes their resolution in season 3 all the better.

As an aside, Natsumi ends a lot of her sentences with “desu no”. I don’t think it really changes what a sentence means, but I’m not sure how it’s supposed to make her sound. Is it similar to Zuramaru?

TLDR: 77/10 for the money girl. Emorin does a lovely job with her voice. KinaNatsu SSS-tier ship. I just wish there was more of the two of them.

E: For me, Natsumi exists right on the knife's edge of being really annoying. She's pretty one-dimensional, constantly tries to sabotage Liella, and is just not a nice person most of the time. However, I think the rest of S2 being not that great for me tipped her the other way. I love Natsumi, she made me laugh every time she was on camera, and her constant string of cartoon-villain schemes was personally hilarious. She reminds me a little of Phoney Bone, if anyone here's read the Bone comics; just a silly scheming anti-hero.

She's also got to have the highest crime rate for any Love Live character. Fraud? Conspiracy to sell ilicit images of minors? Straight-up plotting murder at one point? No one does it like Natsumi. Sometimes I feel there's a staff member who just really hates Youtube and channeled it all through her, lol.

I will say though, her story bored me a little bit. It was solid and tight but felt pretty predictable or safe, I guess, though I can see how someone else would like it. Tomari just felt like they were repeating Natsumi's story again, as if they thought the audience hadn't caught it the first time around, but I had and was already bored by it, so that's a bit of a negative. I wish she had been paired up with Kinako more, the country bumpkin / scheming city girl combo would have been really good, but I don't mind her pairing up with Sumire and Keke either.

Overall I like Natsumi a lot, for keeping me sane in Superstar's last two seasons. Her singing voice I think is also very underrated, I loved her Liella no Uta song for S2 and I'm always impressed when I hear her.

F: 
I know that season 2 wasn't anything great but Natsumi (along with shiki) was one of the characters who made it entertaining for me despite coming off as annoying at times. While her initial characterization makes her come off as kind of an asshole for seeing liella as walking money printers for her unsuccessful youtube channel her development from seeing them as a content farm to legitimately wanting to join them and finally becoming a member was nice but she didn't feel like a complete character until season 3. After her focus episode in season 2 she kinda just ends up in the same place as yoshiko in sunshine season 2 where she's just in the background and if the writers felt like they needed a quick laugh if stuff got abit boring they gave it to natsumi. Season 3 and the addition of tomari made her character feel more complete because it finally explained her backstory and motivations which I felt like they should've done it in season 2. Overall shes ok not my all time favorite character she's entertaining but the very bloated cast definitely resulted in her doing less than what I feel like she could've done

(personality-database.com opinion)

A: She has no/very weak Fi, so that rules out ExFPs for me. Both ESFP & ENTJ have Se and Te in their stacks, but what makes Natsumi an ENTJ to me is she better fits Te-Ni. She's primarily focused on action and getting things done, and her Ni generates ideas and plans for her Te to work with. She looks into and strategizes for the future, so she's not an Ni-inf imo.

Fi-inf fits better. She can be out of touch with her values and principles, such as when she tries to get clout at Liella's expense (clickbait videos) and when asked why she wants money, she can't answer.

This was written after S2 ep.6, so definitely subject to change.
