
name        : Ren Hazuki
kanji       : 葉月 恋
color       : #0000a0
mbti        : ISTJ(82), ISFJ(13)

(idol.st)
background:
Ren is dedicated to enriching the lives of her fellow students, as the school's responsibilities were handed down to her by her mother. Her home is very close to the school, and likewise separated from the hustle and bustle of the city. Ren studies calligraphy, art, English, ballet, and practices swimming, but she is particularly adept at playing the piano and performing as a figure skater. Ren comes from a background of affluence and high class, with her growing up in a mansion.

Her family situation is a bit complicated; her father left them to go work overseas due to disagreements with her mother, who worked hard founding Yuigaoka in the place of her old school. Her mother shortly passed away due to health complications, which left Ren alone with a maid. Ren, thus, feels obligated to help sow the seeds of a great school, one that many hard-working and upstanding students will want to flock to so that she can fulfill her mother's dream.

Her mother used to be a school idol back in her days, she specifically became one to save her own school from shutting down, failing to succeed; Ren took on the aspiration of becoming a school idol from her. Because, however, Ren couldn't find any records of her mother's school idol days, she assumed her mother regretted being a school idol for failing to save her school, Ren then grew to dislike school idols and tried to shut down Kanon and Keke's aspirations for ebbing school idols. It is only later that it was revealed to her, by Kanon, that her mother regrets nothing of her school idol days.

In Season 2 Episode 5 of the anime, Ren plays on a game console at Keke's house, which led to her becoming hooked to playing games, as she is also shown playing a game on her phone before all of the girls go home for the night, where Kanon also mentions that Ren is hooked on playing games. In Season 2 Episode 7, Ren is shown to be addicted to video games, with her father sending various game consoles over to her house from overseas, which absorbed her into the world of gaming. Even at school, she plays games on her phone, and once imagined playing a game on her phone during practice, while the other girls, such as Chisato and Keke, think is most likely dozing off due to lack of sleep. Because of her addiction to playing games, she decided to keep it a secret from the other members because she imagined they'd probably make fun of her if she told them about her addiction of playing games. However, one day, at the clubroom, she told everybody about her addiction of playing games, which led to everybody else going to Ren's house and playing games with her. Ever since then, Ren has not been worried about keeping her addiction of playing games a secret anymore, and is more than happy to talk about it anytime.

personality:
Ren is polite and speaks with a very formal tone, although she is not quite used to handling casual conversations. Having been told as a child to refrain from spending too much time online, she also has difficulty communicating on camera. But considering that Ren is a fairly disciplined individual who manages her time well, she could easily dispense with any form of small talk. Ren believes that she mainly takes after her own mother, given her own unwavering commitment towards making Yuigaoka the number one school in her city.

While she was a bit too serious at first, Ren mellows out since joining Liella! and shows her true personality; she's certainly responsible and diligent, but also friendly, kind, and good-natured, also showing quite a playful streak. She also seems to have quite the naïve side to her, shown through her curiosity and innocence of video games and many other things. She's easily slightly embarrassed about these traits, her formal tone sometimes falling apart. Overall, she is still very responsible, reliant, resilient, and one for order, and is accepted by the members of Liella! and those who respect her.

(namu.wiki)

introduction:
Hello, my name is Hazuki Ren. Thank you for your interest in our school.
Since I have lived in this town for a long time,
my mother built[11] I am striving to make this school an excellent one.
I will create a school that sets the standard for high school students not only in academics but also in manners and behavior. I will work hard every day
to ensure that the number of students increases and it becomes the best high school in this town, and
I will definitely achieve this goal.
This is not a hope, but a duty that must be fulfilled.
My favorite food is strawberries, but I am not particularly particular about them.

(wikipedia)
Ren is a third-year student who is the daughter of the school founder, Hana Hazuki, as well as the school's first student council president. She is respected around campus for being polite and obedient.

(reddit opinion)

A: There's a lot with Ren I kinda don't get. I think the premise is excellent-- an orphaned child lashing out as she struggles with the death of her mother-- but the execution felt so sloppy to me. Her mom supposedly hid her experience being an idol in order to let Ren find it out herself-- why? And at the same time child Ren asked her what it was like and she gave a response just fine, only that Ren forgot it after, so what's her mom's reasoning behind that? And the Director stood by watching this grief-riddled teen make the lives of 4 innocent girls significantly harder for no reason-- why???

You could say that she wanted Ren to find her own path in life, but Ren didn't. She acted on the presumption her mom hated it and only changed when she learned otherwise; she was still following her mom's path, just misguided. I sometimes think if Ren somehow found out her mom did hate idols she would quit Liella instantly, even after all the memories she'd made. Maybe I'm wrong for that, please feel free to tell me otherwise, but she feels so defined by "following her mother's path" it's like I didn't see her grow into her own person. There is the thing with video games, which yeah that was pretty funny, but it felt less personality and more gimmick. Like I wouldn't say Chika's personality is "liking oranges," y'know?

It sucks because I want to like Ren. Her voice is great, songs like Reverb or Liella no Uta's Dears are brilliant listens, and I do like the video game gimmick, but I just feel there's too many holes in her character.

B: 
There must be far more to her mom and her demise, and to her whole family.

The director tricked Kanon into finding the first clues, that made Ren get a crying fit?

So there's a lot more that Ren still keeps repressing, and maybe the whole thing looks far different in truth. We've seen only the tip of the iceberg.

Ren's dead mom arc has several role models and is therefore another reference chain:

Sailor Moon: In the Silver Millenium her "cosmic mom" Old Queen Serenity dies dramatically after fighting an attack wave from the Chaos forces. Also her fort and palace on the moon get devastated. All the Sailor Warriors get sealed inside bubbles for their reincarnation that would take place a millenium later. The traditional part of it: An amnesia, that the cat guardians Luna and Artemis need to undo first....

Evangelion, where the dead mom's soul is required inside the Evangelion to guarantee the connection ("synchronisation") with the pilot ("Children", always the plural). The children too have memory gaps, and Ren's arc was good enough to serve as an analogy to illustrate the situation...

Cardcaptor Sakura: Her mom was quite young when she married her university professor. Sakura the second kid, and then their mom died. Sakura even gets a mental breakdown in the new "Clear Card" sequel (two decades after the original) when her mom's kami visits her. Parallels Evangelion E22 where his happens to Asuka Soryu (the transfer student). Sakura's dad meanwhile looks quite a lot like Clow Reed, the creator of the magic Clow Card Book and cause of all the trouble (Clow Cards are virtually Tarot cards, we saw these in LL too)

Lucky Star, also in E22 the dead mom's kami visits her old home. Still today this catches the audience completely off guard after the other "silly satirical" material)

the biggest one: Hamlet who's overshadowed by his dead parent too. "Ophelia" is a female character from there. Shizuku the theater expert named her dog after her. Already wrote about it.

So Ren's arc has quite the potential.

But Superstar doesn't have Sunshine's "technical writing level". No other LL chapter rly has imo.

And so stuff like the "Hokkaido Bear" in S2 ("asspull" trope) dragged Superstar quite down.

But S4 or film can still repair the whole thing, among others thx to Ren's arc.

C: It’s Ren Ren’s time!

Ren followed the tradition of school presidents opposing the creation of a school idol club, being as most as stubborn as Eli was, but of course that wasn’t without reason, as while she harboured some kind of willingness to be one, she had the wrong belief of her mother’s stance and wanted to carry her legacy of the school, and while she didn’t take the best decisions at the beginning, she deeply cared about the school and the members, even if her expression seemed otherwise. She wanted the best for the school, yet her wording and her status got her in trouble, but in the end, after she learned the truth about the meaning of the school and her part in being an idol from her mother, she appreciated school idols again. While I didn’t like her arc in S1 too much, but Wish Song was an amazing way to wrap up the arc. I love how whenever there’s an important moment of Ren emotional piano music started playing in the background (not sure whether it’s a part of Wish Song or one of her solos).

Ren is realky strict at first, but after joining Liella she shows herself to be a really polite, respectful, kind and caring character, but is sometimes a bit goofy, and really elegant in my opinion, but also can lose her composure really quickly when on embarrassing situations, she is the most innocent member of Liella, not knowing about livestreams, gaming nor even kotatsu, she really lived a sheltered life on her mansion, her reaction to what was happening in their first livestream was hilarious, but poor Kanon she got pinched a lot. She is also a really hard worker, as it was shown until her arc in S2 that she was holding all council responsibility on her own until she learned to rely on others help thanks to Kanon.

Which speaking of, her arc in S2 was really enjoyable as well, how despite her being a really responsible and hardworking girl, she became addicted to gaming so much she was losing sleep, and always has these exaggerated thoughts and reactions, and I certainly didn’t expect Mei to be the one who had to mediate the case, but that episode truly was a breath of fresh air,and definitely added some depth to Ren, I can’t blame Kinako for thinking she’s from another world honestly.

Her relationship with the rest of her year seems to be very superficial, while I don’t deny they are good friends I wish there has been more depth to that. Her relationships with the second years though, they were interesting, as expect Shiki, Ren shared something with them, Ren and Mei are the composers, but they both love to slack off sometimes with some gaming, and Kinako’s and Ren’s arc in S3 was nice, she found in Kinako the successor of her role, which I believe it was a good choice considering how both seemed to be the innocent member of each year and Kinako being responsible as well, and as for Natsumi and Tomari, her final message before stepping out of the school was directed to them.

Overall Ren is a character I like a lot, being on my top 5 of Liella, I love the contrast her voice has in the songs, Nagi-chan did a spectacular job with her. My favourite song of Ren is Midnight Rapsody, it’s such a vibe and quite refreshing from the usual calm song of Ren.

D: Aki Akane… I don’t remember the rest of the haiku. Ren time!

Hazauki Ren fits into a very weird spot for me. Her arc in season one was the classic disapproving student council president, but after that she really took a sideline. Even more so than the other third years. She had her own episodes in seasons 2 and 3, and we’ll talk about them, so those were good at least.

We don’t see too much about Ren’s relationship with her mother, but I seem to think that they both might have had trouble communicating their emotions. Ren definitely struggled with it at first, and I’d like to think that her mom’s idea of hiding her school idol memories was her own way of trying to get her feelings across. Sort of in a “when you’re ready, you’ll find them” style.

I think the message her mother was trying to convey was that Ren could be her own person. While it was nice that she deeply cared for her mother’s school, she didn’t need to force herself to be a perfect person. Her mother would have been happy with whatever she chose to do. And that sense of freedom and purpose it what spurs Ren on to join Liella, and it motivates the rest of her arc.

In season 2, Ren’s main episode follows a bit of this journey, with her getting a bit too caught up in video games. But we get to see how her making friends and due to her experiences with Liella, she has people to help. It’s a relatively unimportant, but good story. Also, it’s got one of the few more explicit mentions of yuri, with the rest of the girls wondering if her and Mei are dating. (I’ll talk about it more in her episode I think…)

But unfortunately, Ren takes a major backseat for most of season 2 and season 3. It’s not until her final episode with Kinako that we get to see the conclusion to her character arc. An important part of Ren’s growth comes for understanding that it’ll soon be time to leave the students in someone else’s hands. There’s a lot to be said about Kinako for this episode, but for Ren herself, she understands through Kinako what it means to move on from the school, at least for a time.

Ren acknowledges that it’s not just her Mother’s school anymore, and that someone like Kinako can be a wonderful student council president after her. Not only being able to choose a successor, but also being able to place her trust for something as important to her as Yuigaoka really shows just how far she’s come. The Ren/Kinako episode is one of my favorites from season 3.

A lot of Ren’s relationships with the third years is explored in season 1, so there’s not much to talk about. She really trusts and cares for the other girls, but I wish we got to see some more interactions between them in the later seasons. I think Ren is the most like a reliable Senpai for the second and first years. I’d like to think Mei was super surprised that Ren confided her love of games to her. I think that Shiki and Ren would get along very well, as they’re both somewhat more reserved, and they probably understand each other’s passions and motivations.

We don’t see too much of Natsumi, but Ren and Kinako getting to interact is exactly the kind of growth I wanted to see. Two girls that hadn’t had many chances to converse getting a lot of time to play off of each other was really nice. I love their dynamic as well.

Due to how hectic season 3 was, we didn’t get much time to see Ren with the first years. I think similar to Chisato, Tomari and Wien really respect Ren a lot, even if they don’t show it too often.

Nagi-Chan (Aoyama Nagisa), Ren’s Seiyuu, is also amazing. There are so many funny clips of her (Compliance, hair attacking, ponytail writing). Plus she has a really nice voice.

TLDR: 76/10 for the moon girl. Nagi-Chan does a lovely job. Ren is actually one of the few LL girls I don’t actually ship with anyone. RenChisa A-tier ship I guess.

E: (insert Hattakiri spiel about Ren's resemblance to Rosalina of Super Mario Galaxy fame because they both had dead mothers at the centre of their story, which was foreshadowed by the former series being called Sunshine. Also, because Wish Song seriously sounds like a Super Mario Galaxy song with lyrics, specifically reminding me of Purple Coins.)

I do like the concept of Ren's story more than the actual execution, which camel-cultist already covered. The idea of a lonely 16 year old girl who ended up way in over her head and accidentally caused the school to hate her because she does not have enough social experience to handle the situation is very relatable, except all the director had to do to prevent all her trauma is just tell her what her mother thought of idols.

But the bigger problem I had was that Ren cries in regret, joins Team 5Ds, and that's it? Because the show seemed to promptly forget about her, she never got to redeem herself. Kanon and Chisato got to establish themselves as strong, charismatic leaders, and even Keke started a talent agency, but Ren fell behind and got reduced to a mere bureaucrat. There were so many chances for her to have a bigger role in the story. A lot of Kanon's scenes with the young uns should have went to her, especially since S3E1 teased her bonding with Margarete over their colossal fuck-ups in front of entire crowds of people. She gave a nice, if safe valedictorian speech at the end of the series, but they could have had her do the same reflection on their journey for their winning song in S2, and it would have been an impactful redemption coming from her.

...you know, in an unfortunate way, she does resemble how Rosalina got demoted to a generic Mario princess after her debut.

I did rank Ren the lowest out of OG Liella, because while I still like her, it's hard to ignore how messy and inconclusive her arc is. Still, she's middle of the road in the rankings for Liella as a whole.

F: 
"To be or not to be, that is the question!"

Hamlet's famous monolog; or is it supposed to be a dialog with his dead father? For this scene's often staged like this: Hamlet holding his dad's skull...

The dead parent's legacy overshadowing the own existence...

Ren's mom's legacy: Yuigaoka. Her husband and Ren's dad: Not present. He's trying to make up for his absence by sending video games.

The best he can do. Let this sink in.

Love Live's signature way of depicting a "second glance wtf" aka "Fridge Horror" trope.

And Yuigaoka seems to be by far not the only thing that's overshadowing Ren: Kanon was tricked by Yuigaoka's director into finding a few clues on Ren's family's past.

It caused Ren a crying fit, even though it was only the tip of the iceberg.

What else do the director and Hazuki's maid know? The old photos (among those clues) made it look as if they once were idolmates to Ren's mom...

Did they promise their dying fellow schoolidol to take care of her daughter, (Tokyo)-Godfathers-like? They were three - so has Kanon already secretly been recruited as the third member...?

Kanon the "genki orange haired leader personality" they've been waiting for, like Nozomi for Honk and Dia for Chika (inverted on Ayumu, subverted on Kaho)...?

But especially Chika was pissed a lot in Sunshine S1 E9 after finding out the 3rd years hadn't given away the whole truth...

Director and maid are about to make the same experience with Kanon, should something bad happen to Ren in S4 or movie.

Kanon in Austria; but she'll instantly catch the next airplane for sure.

But what would this bad thing be? Well: Ren passing out and unable to speak and move for a few days. Happened to Sakura in Cardcaptor Clear Card when her dead mom visited her; and happened to Asuka Soryu in Evangelion E22 "Don't Be".

"To be or not to be, that is the question!" and "don't be" was Eva's answer....

The difference to Love Live: Eva's one of those works with hyperboles (= "oversized metaphors") galactic in scale.

Love Live's story concept dumps them. The characters are left with and to a "dull" Slice of Life setting...

Ren imploding and her friends need to build her up again. Kanon scolding the hell outa director and maid for not talking earlier. Maybe Mei the new "formal leader" doing this job and proving to be a worthy successor and "proxy" for Kanon.

The trigger: "Farewell Chibi", because she's quite old for a dog of this age. We still remember how much Anko had YohaRiri shook, right...?

This is my S4/movie prediction/hope.

Love Live back once again, with its darkest plot twist and arc climax so far.

All carried by the character concept Ren.

(personality-database.com opinion)

A: I've already made a comment about her being a very soft ISTJ, but I'd like to argue for her Enneagram now since the show is over and 1w2 just doesn't sit right with me. Also forewarning, there's spoilers from Superstar and a bit of Love Live All Stars so I'd recommend not looking at this if you don't want to spoiled for either of these

She just doesn't have the same passion of anger and resentment on herself and others that many e1 characters struggle with, and I don't think her integrating to both points of 7 and 4 makes sense for her (just putting this out here that I personally believe in the theory that all 9 types can integrate and disintegrate to both points, I know many people on this site tend to believe in the integration and disintegration to each one point only so I wanted to clarify this). Instead, I think that she is a core 6 mainly because her reasons to save Yuigaoka was because she felt this sense of duty to keep her mother's school going, not because she had her own idea of "I want to save Yuigaoka from shutting down because I think it is good and I will be imperfect if I don't do so". Not that her dialogue would have been as overt as that, but it's just that she only wanted to save the school *only* because that's what she thought her mum would have wanted to do

A good comparison would probably be with Shioriko from LLAS, who I've typed as 1w2 so/sp. Her reason for stopping school idols was because of Kaoruko (her sister), because of how she abandoned her path to becoming the Mifune family successor for school idols. She saw school idols as a waste of time and were imperfect, and therefore she saw school idols as a path to failure and began to direct her attention to the aptitudes of the NijiGaku students because she didn't want them to fall into her version of imperfection and failure like how her sister did. The difference that Ren has with her is that she only stopped school idols because she had thought her mum regretted it, so she followed along with that belief and didn't question it because she was scared of not being able to save the school. She doesn't see her mother's (assumed) failure as imperfection, rather she was fearful of her mother's (assumed) failure and hadn't wanted to go down the same path, unlike Shioriko who's arc was departing from feeling resent for school idols and learning that school idols aren't failures or a waste of time. Which would make sense, e1s passion is anger while e6s passion is fear

I also think this indicates social 6 since she practically seemed committed to her mother and the school she had tried to rebuild, and wanted to do everything she could to honour her like saving Yuigaoka. Social 6s are described to be types that would chain themselves to groups and/or ideologies because that's where they find their safety, from being part of a group that would work together to the same goals. I think her jumping to conclusions that her mum had regretted it could also point to social 6, since social 6s don't like ambiguity although maybe this is just an inferior Ne thing

Just to end this off, I think that Ren has a very strong 1 fix because of her strong sense of duty for the school and her mother, but I think her arc in general reflects the e6 growth path of learning to discard her fears and uncertainties, to get up from her comfort zone, and to just come to peace and go w/ the flow (integration to 9 and 3). I think that when she gets proof that her mum had not regretted her idol activities, it's more reflective of the 6's holy idea of 'faith' in that she became more trusting of school idols, rather than the 1's holy idea of 'perfection'. In fact, I don't think she ever did see school idols as imperfect, it's more she was fearful of them. I feel that if she was a core 1 she'd be riddled with anger and resentment over the 4 members of Liella, but in her episode I just felt that she was more fearful of their impending failure, which would result in the school closing down, which would mean she had ultimately failed her goal of saving the school thus failing her mother as well. I'm v happy to hear any counterarguments though!

B: what a good kid! definitely the softest out of ll's student council prez, she's more like umi in fact lol, but less neurotic in some ways (probably bc she doesnt know a Honoka). hope we get a s2 (which is likely since they cant end the story at tokyo), i wanna see her get another episode!

moving on from the gushing, her type is almost without a doubt ISTJ. Ne inf is obvious with how she panicked when the club got called in by the principal lol, and maybe when she thought wrong about her mom's experience as a school idol. she gets really stressed about what ifs, and she gets uncomfortable when told to try things she doesnt know the first thing about or didnt get a chance to prepare (IxxJs in general). Fi vs Fe can be argued but i see Te in her with how she handled her auguration and the school fes, and just how she handles her own drama in general.

C: Okay, during first Superstar season I admit I thought of her as a fairly stereotypical ISTJ obsessed with rules, the so-called obstuctive bureaucrat... When in the following episodes it's definitely revealed she's definitely NOT like that. Once Ren revealed why this was her initial position, it's clear that she's quite the dork, far more fun-loving than she used to look, and therefore I typed her as Melancholic-Sanguine.
As for the type, clear ISFJ especially since her true self is revealed. Si-Fe is evident: she's very meticulous, hard-working, formal and polite, and also very kind and happy to support her friends. While reserved, she reveals her emotions fairly easily and has no problem crying in front of others when moved. Going with Ti tert, I definitely think Ren used to be very much in the Si-Ti loop, trying not to care about idols and anything related and following her own path, which didn't last long. In the end, her Ne inf becomes very evident in S2. Given her upbringing, her genuine and naive curiosity for things she's not familiar with perfectly represents her more childish function, as seen when she becomes obsessed with video games.

