
name        : Shiki Wakana
kanji       : 若菜 四季
color       : #b2ffdd 
mbti        : INTP(38), INTJ(14)

(idol.st)
background:
Shiki is a stoic girl who has difficulty expressing herself. She isn't very fond of loud places. Her favorite things are Mei, stag beetles and butterflies. She appears to have a calm demeanor and is quiet most of the time. She also does not smile much, but the reason why is yet to be determined. She is also very conscious of her surroundings, as she easily noticed Mei looking at her from the Science Club room while she is with the other Liella! members at the rooftop.

At her core, Shiki is a kind and well meaning girl who does her best to support her best friend; initially becoming a member of the school idol club on a trial period in an attempt to bait Mei into joining. Eventually, she officially joins the group in order to spend more time with Mei and bond over their newly found shared interest. However, despite her gentle nature, Shiki can become noticeably jealous, clingy and possessive when Mei spends time with others, as well as remarking about Mei's looks almost every chance she gets.

She has a strange unexplained habit of blurting out English sentences at random occasions.

Shiki prefers to stay in the shade, as the light is too bright for her. She has a habit of fainting when placed in situations that are too much for her.

personality:
Shiki has a slim and shapely figure with short blue hair, reddish-brown eyes and a full lower lip. She tucks her hair behind her left ear, where she wears a small red earring.

(namu.wiki)

introduction:
My name is Wakana Shiki...... That's it.
Huh? You think that's too short? Do you need more information about me besides this?
Things I like? Mei . And stag beetles and butterflies. That's about it. That's all.
Huh? Anything else? Nothing in particular. I just keep hearing from Mei that I'm good at inventing and experimenting.
Besides the School Idol Club, I'm also in the Science Club.
Compared to when I was alone in the Science Club, the School Idol Club is full of energy and very different.
I didn't really like loud things, but
singing together and getting lots of cheers doesn't seem so bad after all...
If you have time, come watch a performance

(wikipedia)
Shiki is a stoic second-year student who has difficulty expressing herself. Being one of the school's only science club members, she usually can be found spending her free time in the science club room inventing strange gadgets, one of which being a pair of robotic roller-skates.

(reddit opinion)

A: Shiki-chan? Haaai! Nani ga suki? Cookie and cream yori mo a•na•ta. Time for Mei’s #1 simp, Shiki!

Shiki is the character that caught me the most before getting into Liella, specially in terms of character design (guess that Fire Emblem made me have a thing for blue haired characters?) and her personality of being straight to the point and efficient with her words really intrigued me. On top of that, Glass Ball Rejection was one of the first Liella songs I listened and it hit me so hard. Of course, after watching the series, the OG five took over her, but she’s still my favourite out of the 2nd gen.

Her scientist side is really cool imo, I definitely didn’t expect her to pull some advanced gadget to drag Kinako up the stairs, nor owning a hoverboard (is that even allowed at the school?) or her glasses, and she definitely has a scheming mind which I love it, the skeleton plan was awesome, and her shenanigans with the AirPods, the tracker bug on Natsumi’s phone and truth serums were fun to watch as well, her evil face was priceless. Unfortunately, after her arc with Mei she really gets almost no development in S2 besides being the best dancer of her generation and practicing with Chisato.

Which speaking of, we cannot fully talk about Shiki without talking about Mei, as she’s her #1 fan and simp, her arc revolved on getting Mei to the club, she knows her so well she knew she had to reserve a spot in the front for Mei, and I found it fun how she went paparazzi mode and took photos of Mei, and then helping her get her way into the club, and the same the other way around having Mei support her by being her shadow when the light is too bright in S3, the yuri vibes in that episode was definitely strong, or how they had the same thought about giving their senpais their last victory, as well as becoming Vice President when Mei became the President. Their friendship is definitely one of the best in the series.

Fortunately S3 brought a much deserved arc for Shiki, Special Color arc is my favourite arc and song of S3, having to face the spotlight but being unable to stand it, possessing a unique charm but not the confidence to do so, but of course Mei and Chisato wouldn’t give up on her, and “The variety in people is the reason that we have a place to shine”, that was such an inspiring quote from Kanon that represented Liella so well, and how they implemented it in the song was an amazing buildup.

For her relationships, she cares a lot about her fellow classmates, just as shown in the Dazzling Game episode, as she was the one that took initiative to talk to Natsumi to solve her issues with her sister. As the relationship with her senpais, it’s clear that she respects all of them, specially Kanon and Chisato, but I believe Keke as well since her final message of treasuring your passion was received by her.

Kuma-chan definitely did a good job with her and I find it interesting that her name has the same phonetic as Shiki’s surname, and her attempt to sing Ryouran part in a radio show was really in character adding Mei on the verses.

Shiki is definitely one of my favourites from Liella, my favourite solo song from her is Glass Ball Rejection but of course overall Special Color is the superior song if include group ones, I love the album cover as it’s just supporting ShikiMei ship.

B: A bit shorter this week as I'm unwell, but I like Shiki a lot! Her mad scientist antics were pretty fun and I like how orchestral she was in helping Kinako and Mei to the group. She had funny moments assisting Natsumi's gremlin-ness too, them plotting to straight-up murder Margarete is one of my favourite Superstar moments and by far my S2 highlight. I think if anyone was a "leader of the 2nd years" it would be Shiki, though she'd vehemetly disagree and run away if the idea was proposed. I do like how her S3 episode examined this, but the execution felt sloppy in ways I can't really describe. That's something I hold against S2+3 in general though so I don't count it against Shiki that much.

My one criticism, and I'll get crucified for this, but I'm not crazy on Shiki's relationship with Mei. I felt they lacked a key dynamic that made me love other relationships in Love Live, like Chika and Riko or Kanon and Chisato. It felt they were designed to be in love first and have a relationship second, if that makes sense, which does happen in real life and all but it felt a little boring as a story. I'll happily be proven wrong on that though, because I do like how explict their romance was, and it's something I'll definitely go more into next week with Mei.

C: Cool Beauty. Shiki time!

Ookuma Shiki is another character who I really enjoyed the development of over the course of seasons 2 and 3. Shiki’s arcs, unlike her character, are very upfront and shown to the audience. Most of her development happens within her main episodes during this time, but she’s still a wonderful girl to watch. I relate to her in a lot of ways, and her relationship with Mei is always an absolute joy.

The introduction to Shiki and Mei is very reminiscent of Hanamaru and Ruby’s introductions in Sunshine. Mei really wants to be an idol, so Shiki pushes her to do it, they both join but Shiki leaves after Mei joins, only for her to realize she wants to do it as well and decides to stay. There are a few key differences between the two which are important to mention.

Shiki, notably, hides her feelings a lot more than most other girls. For a while, Mei was probably the only one who understood her, and even after joining Liella, it probably was still a little difficult for the other girls to figure out what she was feeling or thinking. But importantly, Shiki really looks up to the third years. All of the second years seem to do so, but Shiki (being a more rational person) probably feels the worst about her individual skill level not matching up, as opposed to Mei, who might not enjoy herself tainting the image of the original 5 members of Liella.

I’d say most of Shiki’s unseen arc throughout season 2 and into season 3 was finding that sense of self-confidence she was lacking. I think she still definitely enjoyed being an idol and supporting Mei, but it wasn’t until season 3 that she really learned how to believe in herself. The ShikiMei episode in season 3 was a wonderful exploration of both of their characters, showcasing how they’ve grown by being in Liella. Even if Shiki doesn’t believe she can stand out that well, Mei now believe in her the same way Shiki believed in Mei back in season 2.

Shiki’s color being “white” is a great reflection of her self-acceptance in this episode. On its own, white doesn’t mean anything, but only when it’s surrounded by all sorts of other colors does it truly get a chance to shine.

I mentioned earlier that Shiki really looks up to the third years, but as a result of her general introvertedness, we don’t get to see too many interactions between her and the rest of the club. I’d like to think that she grows to feel much more comfortable with the third years over the course of season 3. At least when it comes to Kinako and Natsumi, Shiki really seems to care for them as friends. She made a machine to help Kinako join Liella after all. Their comedic dynamic is funny also.

Her relationship with Mei is some of the closest we’re probably ever going to get to canonizing a relationship between two members. Seriously, in the section for Shiki’s interests, she has “Mei”. That’s it. There’s really not much I can say that the show doesn’t do for me, so I’ll leave it at that. I honestly do kind of wish Shiki acted a bit more possessive in season two when they thought Mei and Ren might’ve been dating.

Due to the nature of season 3, we didn’t get very many interactions between Shiki and the first years. I’d like to think she’d get along very well with Tomari though.

Ookuma Wakana (Kuma-Chan, Shiki’s Seiyuu) is also hilarious. I’ve been meaning to check out her podcast at some point. Also yes, she does share the same last name as the character she’s voicing, it’s pretty funny.

TLDR: 86/10 for the… bug collector? Kuma-Chan is hilarious (and popular recently thanks to AiScream). ShikiMei Z-tier ship.

D: I think the two most common complaints I see about Shiki are actually big parts of why I like her.

I don't think her attachment to Mei detracts from her character. Neither of them ever particularly fit in with the people around them, Mei came off as a lot more content with herself whereas Shiki was a very deeply lonely girl. While the two were never particularly close, they were the only ones who understood each other, so it makes sense that Shiki would grow such a strong attachment to Mei. I can definitely relate to the feeling of staying most loyal to your closest friend even after integrating into their friend group. Of course I'm rooting for her to come out of her shell more, but it's a comforting feeling to know Shiki has someone to fall back on when she's uncomfortable for any reason.

I also love how instead of forcing Shiki to take the spotlight, Liella are accommodating to her limits and opt to work around her shortcomings instead of against them. It reminds me of Rina's episode in a way. Shiki doesn't need a bunch of screentime to shine, she's there to be in the background with a funny line or experiment from time to time. That's the role she's comfortable with and to that I say all the more power to her.

(Also, as an autistic guy, I lowkey love how every group since Niji has slowly been ramping up the realism with their implicitly autistic characters, Rina was relatable but definitely felt like a cybergirl gimmick-first character, Shiki is generally more grounded save for her mad science shtick, and then Hasu has Tsuzuri who needs no elaboration)

E: Of all the added girls of liella shiki was definitely the stand out of them all and by far my favorite. Her being the only mad scientist character in all of love live really helped her be insanely unique from the get go. It makes her comedic scenes stand out amongst the usual love live humor because it relies on her being the science girl compared to say nico, yoshiko, or kasumi being made into the butt off the joke because of their antics shikis response to the other characters antics is her sciencey shit which makes it stand out all the more. As for her characterization while she sort of got the short end of the stick in terms of writing like all of gen 2 and tomari after their respective focus episode I like her story arc of being interested in joining liella but holds it off for a while then she uses mei being interested/ a closeted fan as an excuse to join mostly because she's shy and has other self image issues about it. Sucks that after that she had a supporting role but hey she still stood out. Lastly I feel like we can't really have a recent discussion about shiki without mentioning aiscream and to me the song definitely affected how people perceive shiki the most. Ruby is definitely a known or at the very least a familiar face character since more people know sunshine than they do superstar and I'm not really sure about ayumus mainstream recognition but for shiki she is for the most part still a "new" character so more eyes I think are placed on her. Of course kuma-chan and by extension shiki has recently started being called cookies and cream girl and it feels like her nico nico nii in a sense that because this song was memed to hell and back that people are gonna be like "what show did this blue haired girl come from I know the other two?" And then they will check out sunshine niji and superstar only to be disappointed that not once do any of these girls meet sif allstars style but they don't actually eat any of their favorite ice cream flavors onscreen.

F: Shiki a new Rei Ayanami Expy. And together with Mei the "Asuka Expy" forming yet another Red Oni Blue Oni dynamic.

And it's once again a quite emotional dynamic: Mei supporting Ren during her "video game slump", Shiki mistaking it for a fling, and experiencing a mental breakdown.

Mei then carrying Shiki (Your Lie In April reference). Hence Mei's "bear paw" character symbol: Because she's strong enough to "bear" Shiki.

Imagine their friends hadn't intervened after Shiki kicked Mei out of the science club...

The still underestimated and laughed at "Power of Friendship" trope...

Mei also the "tech nerd" and STEM girl (a fantasy unit that urgently needs to meet in a crossover setting...) Her tech devices, especially the "muscle manipulator", even exceeded what was possible in 2021 (afaics) so she (and maybe already Rina) made the LL franchise actually reach into the scifi genre...

LL's "Mirai zura" premise as I call it. The possibility to instantly spread a thing in the internet for instance was a key plot point already in SIP with Eli's unpermitted Start Dash upload.

LL's the "magical girl without magic" but with the intense and most progressive Yuri themes established by Sailor Moon. Making up for the lack of magic via music - and via the scifi-like tech of the contemporary A.I. epoch.

Scifi-tech has already become a "slice of life"...

And the STEM girls embody and characterize this...

So an arc where Shiki's needed for battling deepfakes would be perfect for S4 or Superstar's movie. Or a crossover so the STEM girls could join their forces here....

Shiki also Liella's "English expert", so she could also perform covers.

But it's also a little dangerous for her: She seems to suffer from asthmatic fits after strenouos song centers, as we saw.

Would be my obligatory Meat Loaf reference: After a 2h live he would collapse and need oxigen on a regular basis...

(personality-database.com opinion)

A: pretty sure the current consensus was made before episode 1 of season 2 aired so sp5 is probably a stereotype vote lol. anyway i think that sx9 is a better choice for shiki due to her avoidance of what she actually wants and instead mostly following mei and what she wants. the fact that shiki joined the school idol club on her own just so mei would join it and she didnt even question leaving the lab what is to be presumed as her place of refuge shows her overly generosity and adaptability of a 9.
