
name        : Sumire Heanna
kanji       : 平安名 すみれ
color       : #74f466 
mbti        : ENTJ(109), ENTP(28)

(idol.st)
background:
Sumire who lives with her parents and a little sister has always lived the life of a performer. Having been thrust into show business as a child, she intensely devoted her formative years to the craft of pleasing an audience. She avoided extracurricular activities in an attempt to balance such a life, but after entering Yuigaoka High, Sumire would enthusiastically take on the idea of becoming a school idol. Sumire lives at a shrine and often helps out as a maiden. She enjoys studying Japanese and Japanese history.

personality:
Being in the entertainment world for so long, Sumire believes her experience and knowledge of its workings is second to none. Somewhat of a prima donna, Sumire assumes that most people already know her name. Somehow attached to the idea of her own stardom, Sumire dreams of becoming a famous school idol not just in Japan, but "across the galaxy." But Sumire also takes her more earthbound duty as a shrine maiden very seriously, warning those like Kanon to not aimlessly ask the gods to do everything for them, such as helping them become school idols. Instead, Sumire believes that they should do their best together without help from the gods and make their own wishes come true.

Sumire was shown to be a confident character who was very self-assured. However, this was most likely a mask. Through a few episodes, we see Sumire always being chosen as second place. Her goal is to become world famous or something similar. However, she feels like she is always the second option and that is clearly shown in episode 10. She feels like she's the worst, so she always acts like she's the best. At the end of episode 10, we finally see Sumire embracing her emotions.

Her catchphrase is "Galaxy~!!!".

(namu.wiki)

introduction:

Hahaha, it's finally my turn. It's alright. Don't worry, the heroine always appears last.
Of course, you all know my name, but it is Heanna Sumire. Yes, it is that very Sumire.
I had once put my show business activities on hold to prioritize my private life and studies, but now that
I've entered high school, I have finally resumed my activities as a school idol.
My dream is to become a charismatic Galaxy School Idol who can't let my name end here—not just nationwide...
no, throughout the entire universe!
Oh, I upload videos too, so if you don't mind, please follow me. Galaxy~!

(wikipedia)
Sumire is a third-year student who lives at a well-known and respected community shrine located near the school. She acts somewhat arrogant and rude to strangers, making her anti-social to her classmates. However, around her friends, Sumire becomes a much more confident, yet still prone to being cocky.

(reddit opinion)

A: It's time for best girls, giant isopod

Both her and Natsumi when they were shown for the first time I immediately thought I was gonna hate them cause they seemed irritating and then they immediately become my favourite characters.

Sumire has shown the most amount of growth in Superstar ngl. Season 1 you see her messing up frequently and using her catchphrase repeatedly, kidnapping kanon as well. But as seasons progress she's less the butt of jokes and more like the only sensible member at times. Her self sacrifice in season 2 where she wanted gen 2 to be mad at her for essentially calling them beneath the rest of the girls just to save Keke.

I really like her dynamics with Keke ,sure some might see it as over hating on Keke's end but I don't really see it that way since I don't view their relationship as hostile as people make it out to be (tho before Non-Fiction arc Keke is just a hater,not defending that)

Sumire shows the most amount of growth in the anime with her acting less erratic than the other girls and using more of a logical approach. I find her relationship with Natsumi to be interesting as well since we do see them with Keke hanging out somewhat frequently,Sumire keeping both of them inline lmao (side note, a Natsumi and Sumire ship could be called NatSumi)

Now for extra stuff like the manga we see better showing of their relationships,like how Sumire becomes a L-tuber with Natsumi and when Sumire is sick ,Keke is secret helps her little sister in the shrine. The anime didn't have time to capture small moments like this which I get. Sumire is a character that starts out extremely immature but by the end she's the most logical person in the group,tho still a dork at times

This is in complete contrast to her seiyuu who immediately gets over hyped and jumpy immediately 😭. Paychan is probably in my eyes the number 1 seiyuu with the only other person able to compete being Yuina (Margarete's seiyuu)

I also really fucking love her voice ,like starry prayer is my number 1 solo. And the live performances go so fucking hard when Peiko sings. Like holy shit do the studio versions nerf the amount of emotion she has in each lyric. Same thing with catchu,in an anime sense it makes sense to have Sumire and Kanon together,because well,the only person who would actually go against kanon would be Sumire,I mean she almost got her self slapped by kanon in season 2 lmao ,and Mei's just a fangirl for both so that doesn't make a difference lmao

My only complaint is rate of character growth,like even in season 1 compare her episode to episode and especially by the Non-Fiction arc and then season 2 where she wants Keke to stay and then in season 3 where she plays more of a background glue role. The girl grew way to fast,not enough GALAXY past season 1

B:If I had to summarize Sumire in a single sentence, it'd be "she cares, but she really doesn't want to". Not just for things like her constant rejection for lead roles in, commercials? (I have no idea what the giant isopod thing was advertising), but also for her friends, strangers, Liella as a whole. Sumire is constantly trying to appear apathetic when she's anything but.

And call me basic, but man, that is one of my favourite character tropes. Generally I don't like the gremlin-types, Kasumi was my only exception until now, but Sumire's character arc was just brilliant. Battling with the fact she wants the lead role, wavering when she thinks she doesn't deserve it, battling with the fact she wants Keke to stay and throwing herself under the bus in a desperate attempt to force it-- Sumire is an amazing person. Even if she would probably deny it. (Keke certainly would.)

I really like her singing voice too. Her S1 bundle-in track, Heroine's Runway, is one of my favourite Liella songs. She works really well in other songs too like Happy to do Wa, or of course Nonfiction, which I personally think was Liella's defining S1 song. No doubt because of Sumire's presence too, she absolutely stole the show.

Also, she kidnapped Kanon. Like no qualms, no metaphors, she just straight-up knocked her out and kidnapped her because she saw her in a giant isopod costume. That's kinda funny. Somehow not even the worst crime that happened in Superstar, too.

C: 
Gusokumushi… I find it kind of cute how Keke just started calling Sumire that. Also why does she say “Galaxy”? I mean it’s fun but…

Heanna Sumire is a character that to me, definitely suffers from Liella having a lot of girls to work with. Which is a shame, because she’s very fun to watch, and a unique take on Nico or Kasumi’s main tropes. At least during her main arc in season 1, she was a star.

What really makes Sumire’s arc in season 1 of Superstar so endearing is that we get to see behind her facade a bit more. Nico had some moments like this, but we didn’t get as much of a look at her less boisterous self. One of the big moments to me that shows this is when Kanon and Keke offer Sumire the center spot for Nonfiction! something you’d think she would jump at the chance for, but she seems somewhat reluctant to do so. I really love how the show highlights Sumire’s self doubt to the point that it prevents her from doing something she wants to do.

It’s not until Sumire’s able to overcome her internalized failure that she’s able to truly shine on the stage. It takes her realizing that even Keke believes in her (the Tiara was some fantastic symbolism for this by the way) for her to begin to believe in herself, leading to one of my favorite songs from S1, and you can see why I really love this arc.

Something else that is much more subtle about Sumire’s character going into season 2 is how the Gusokumushi joke is used. From its introductions it left me wondering, why would Sumire even bother playing it back? She obviously wants to forget it. But this plays into her internalized sense of failure. For most of her life, she’s been stuck in this weird awkward role that she can’t escape from, and that video always reminds her of it, and why she needs to keep trying to find an offer from some scouting agency.

By season 2, however, it’s just a joke. Keke almost affectionately uses it as a nickname (in their bickering couple shenanigans), and Sumire’s even leans into it a bit at times. It really feels like she’s embraced it and begun to move on, because of how Liella helped her in season 1. The rest of Sumire’s arc in season 2 revolves around her relationship with Keke, but it’s not at the forefront. By season 3, however, there’s not too much she gets a chance to do. We see by the very end of the show that she lands a job at an agency (with Keke as her manager) but that’s about it. It’s unfortunate, because I think there were a lot of directions to take Sumire with the other girls, but the show was a bit too Kanon-focused at times.

In any case, Sumire’s overconfident attitude from her rather meager showbiz experience is always fun to watch. And it’s honestly cool at times when actually knows how to strut her stuff (I.e. the rapping scene).

Due to Sumire’s general lack of interaction with most of younger girls, there’s not too much to write unfortunately. But I’ll add a bit more about KeSumi. In the manga (questionably canon, I know) there’s a nice moment where Sumire’s little sister asks Keke how she feels about Sumire, since Sumire seems to like her. Keke, after blushing a bit, says she likes Sumire too (this might not be 100% accurate but it’s close enough). Anyways, it’s very cute.

TLDR: 182/10 for the Giant Isopod (I have no idea how good of a translation that is to be honest). Paychan is fantastic (and sometimes laughs like a dolphin). KeSumi legendary Z-tier ship.

D: "She's an icon she's a legend and she is the moment" srsly I knew from the moment her egotistical ass went on the screen I would love her her braging abt being so good in showbusiness despite the fact that her most popular performance is as an isopod ,but also the character development Sumire seems like she doesn't care abt others opinions and genuinely thinks she's hot shit when she thinks pretty low of herself and as a way not to get crushed by the world she puts up a hard front but overtime we got to see her truely mature by the time she was a 3rd year at liella I could tell she cared about her friends and would fight to the ends of the earth for each liella member,also her voice she's in my top 4 liella vocalist with her tomari margarete and kanon,also one again she not only centers nonfiction the song that pretty much Kickstarted liella in my opinion but she's also the center of day 1 nonfiction splendid bside she's the sub center of zettaiki lover the ultimate sumikeke song and seishun hoppers one of liellas best 11 member songs so far what a queen what an icon put some respect on galaxy girl🌟

E: Sumire too once again with a kinda screwed up "showbiz past": The Isopod clip with her as little kid. The clip "slumbering" in the World Wide Web's depths, in danger of resurfacing at any time.

Sumire wanting to keep it underneath the surface, also her own emotional one; therefore she kidnapped Kanon who just had discovered the clip, in order to "clean" Kanon mind from this info via an Onusa treatment from shinto. The Onusa a "sibling" to the Gohei that frequently shows up in manga and anime, also in LL. Also Evangelion's Zeruel and Pikachu's tail refer to it. The shrine maid ("miko") aspect's also a "reference chain": Nozomi, Kagome, Rei Hino aka Sailor Mars, and others.

On a metaphorical level a Madoka Magica quote's quite insightful:

"It is human emotion that created the gods... and created the demons. It created everything." - Oriko Mikuni from the Oriko Magica spinoff.

So one could say "Hino Rei" ("fiery spirit") for example is playing with her own emotional fire via magic tools. Hence also her tsundere personality. Kagome bumps into her "complementary demon Inuyasha ("dog demon". Sheds also a new light on all the dog arcs in LL: Literal dogs to "summon" the "inner demons" of RiHane and also Chika and Mito in a certain way. In GnY it's kinda "subverted back" into a more magical setting again).

To Sumire in the LL setting tho no magic's available...

Her "complementary little demon" and vice versa: Keke.

She even almost risks a split inside Liella in order to make it possible for Keke to stay; by loudly suggesting in S2 that the original 5 with the most experience perform without the "youngsters", in order to have better chances of winning the LL - so Keke has better chances of being allowed to stay in Japan...

And another fundamental LL premise plays a key role in SumiKeke's arc: The "Mirai zura" premise as I call it: Contemporary tech to play this key role...

A tech evolved enough to subvert the "no magic no scifi" aspect in LL's Slice of Life setting. Because via instant translator on her smartphone Sumire's able to spy on Keke's phone conversation with her parents...

Just a few years earlier such a plot point wouldn't have been possible without scifi elements... (even tho the "no scifi" element itself became subverted by RinaShikiTsuzuri the "Cool Girls in STEM")...

And the crown in the post pic's also most symbolic:

The purple color can be tracked back to Homura Akemi the "Incubator hunter" from Madoka Magica (the Incubators ("Kyubey") themselves refering to the "Kyuubi Kitsune demons" from shinto again), and even farther back to Misato Katsuragi the "Angel hunter" from Evangelion. ("Angel" = "aggelos" = "messenger" = messages from the emotions inside that one should listen to...?)

The crown however also an award. Sumire rejects it first because she thinks she doesn't deserve it, i.e. she's still unable to allow herself to deserve something so to speak.

This can be now tracked back to Maki at the beginning of S2 - the new LL rules demand a new song per round, µ's "silently agreeing" on letting Maki do the whole work; and Maki's face turning more and more sour. But she's still not protesting...

The "no" on behalf of herself, and may it be at the expense of others in some cases. Deserving to not have to do all the work alone, even despite the lack of an alternative for the rest of µ's...

Maki not yet able to behave this way; but I have a feeling this would change in her second year under the new chairwoman Kayo. So Liella's new chairwoman Mei soon confronted with new tasks as well - one of several reasons I find a S4 with more time than a film necessary.

A second reason: SumiKeke both graduated so keeping contact will be a little more difficult. Will they manage it? Will the sky help them keep their connection, quote Mari to KananDia...?

And actually this counts for all of Liella...

F: 
Gusokumoshiii, Gusokumoshiii…

Sumire, while she is my least favourite out of the og 5, I really respect her as a character. She might have her vanity up in the air, but her talent is undeniable, she could mimic Kuuka’s choreography on a whim and she had talent for rapping, but her attitude never was for me.

Despite that, she is really a caring person, she might get into a lot of bickering with Keke, but in truth she deeply cares about her, she’s always prying on Keke’s familiar situation and is one of the first ones to notice she’s hiding something, like in S3, and despite all the talking about being the center, she attempted to refuse the role because of the fact that she wanted to ensure the win so Keke get results for her parents, and even hurt her own reputation in S2 for the same reason, her arc in S1 was honestly awesome, and while I do feel like SumiKeke’s friendship seems realistic, I think their bickering was exaggerated. It’s nice to see that they ended up in the same agency at the end of S3, the two of them sure will know how to bring out the best (and worse) of each other. Also love the callbacks of S1 in the final chapters of S3, how she was scouted as a passenger in S1 and got mad, to later on get scouted again in S3 by the same person and get rejected.

Still, as I got to rewatch Superstar she has grown on me, her voice is impressive and she’s definitely entertaining. Hell, she literally went mad and outright kidnapped Kanon when she saw her embarrassing past and went exorcist mode.

Overall really good character, love all the og Liella characters, my favourite song of her is Miteru.

Definitely me not reading the fine print last week and expecting Chisato for this week, Loveca has really confused the order for me

(personality-database.com opinion)

A - ENTP: Definitely ENTP and not ENTJ, she's very much about momentary creativity and being in the spotlight thanks to it (Ne), and not about thought assertivivty and organizing things through logic (Te). She's very flaky and whimsical, not very organized, and endearingly self-absorbed, pretty much like Nico who is an ENTP as well.

B - ENTJ: A song that expresses Sumire's state of mind
「バイバイしちゃえば！？」In the lyrics of the song, it says

"can not do it well, I don't understand why"

"I'm still a bit anxious."

"Watch and learn from all kinds of people!
We all start out by imitating others.
But, If you try this and that
I'm confused and lost as to who I am."

"It's hard to be proud of yourself."

So I think Sumire stuck in the anxiety of type 6, rather than the optimism of type 7.
