name        : Tomari Onitsuka
kanji       : 鬼塚 冬毬
color       : #76dde9 
mbti        : ISTJ(22), ESTJ(9)

(idol.st)

background:
Tomari is the younger sister of Natsumi Onitsuka.

She is already very athletic and a great dancer, but she doesn't see the point in training every day, which angers Margarete.

personality:
Tomari dislikes wasting time. Tomari is organized, analytical but kind, even though her words can be misinterpreted.

Like her older sister, Tomari views school idol activities as a potential income stream that will generate profit for her family. Unlike her sister however, Tomari's personality comes off as stiff and calculating to others. Because of her natural talent for dancing, she does not see much of a point in showing up to practice sessions unless she has something to gain from attending. While she can be very aloof, Tomari has a deep respect for her older sister, and decides to follow in Natsumi's example after seeing how much being a school idol meant to her.

(namu.wiki)
I'm not good at doing useless things, so I'll keep it brief. Nice
to meet you all. My name is Tomari Onitsuka. I am a new member of
Liella!
I'm good at efficiency, and I'm bad at baseless things.
Now that I've become a member of Liella!, I will definitely live up to your expectations as a school idol and maximize our synergy with
the members and my older sisters
. So please don't look at me like that...[5]

(wikipedia)
Tomari is a first-year student with a natural dancing skill who is also Natsumi's younger sister. Like her older sister, Tomari views school idol activities as a potential income stream that will generate profit for her family. However, unlike Natsumi, Tomari comes off as stiff and calculating to other idols.

(reddit opinion)

A: Agree desu. Time for the last Liella member, and the most stoic one, Tomari!

The most logical out of the members, Tomari starts as the cold but rational member that’s highly analytical, often approaching things in the most efficient way, and even despite her seemingly carefree approach, she is quite athletic and capable of keeping up with any training plan, unlike her sister. And I guess that she’s way better than Natsumi to make business decisions, she really takes her things seriously.

Her motivations to join Margarete’s idol group were questionable to me at first, striving to be a rival to Natsumi to prove her newfound dreams to be futile again, but as the show progressed, we get to see how she does deeply care about her sister, and has high respect for Kanon, and through her idol journey, she gets to soften up that cold facade and slowly show enjoyment on her club activities, understanding the joys of not pursuing personal gains, but the fulfilment of dreams, her journey was not the most impactful, but it was really heartwarming to see.

Her relationships, while limited, are really diverse, she earns Margarete’s respect by proving her capabilities both at school and during training, she highly respects Kanon to the point she asked her ribbon during the graduation and, of course, deeply respects her sister, their arc about bridging their gap and composing Dazzling game was great.

Honestly while she is not a character that’s high on my list, I liked the equilibrium with logic and efficiency against emotional value and passion. Having listened to Aspire, Wildcard is clearly my favourite song from her, it goes really hard and I love it.

B: Jellyfish Girl! It’s Tomari time.

Tomari is in a bit of an interesting spot for me. I feel like I understand her character well, and I enjoy the screentime she got, but it still feels like there were more directions she could go in. I think maybe another SOL episode involving her (and maybe Wien as well) would be nice to show how she’s grown over her first year.

From the outset, Tomari was a bit difficult for me to get a good grasp on, since she hadn’t been mentioned at all in season 2. I think maybe just one or two lines from Natsumi about her would’ve been enough for us, but it feels a bit strange that Natsumi never really talked about her. For practically every other sibling in LL, even if they’re not main characters, they still get mentioned occasionally.

But once I got to meet Tomari, I really fell in love with her character. Tomari handles some very important themes about growing up and finding your true passions, and deals with some more interesting sibling dynamics than we’re used to seeing in most anime.

While we probably should have learned about Tomari in season 2, we first meet her when she wants to join Kanon and Wien. It actually tells us a lot about her character that she wants to become a school idol to see how it changed her sister. I think some part of her is still a bit in disbelief, but it really gives us the attitude that she thinks she’s better than this.

Interestingly enough, this resonates really strongly with Wien, in a way. They both feel like they have their own goals which they plan to use being a school idol to help them achieve. But they seem to figure out that just doing it is fun in its own right. What’s also worth mentioning is that Tomari is good, like, really good. We don’t see too much of it, but she’s good enough to convince Wien of all people (probably one of the harshest critics) almost immediately that she can keep up with her and Kanon.

We see a lot of Tomari’s development with her sister and the rest of TomaKanoTe over the course of season 3, but there are a few key things I want to point out. One, like Shiki, she always seems to have a very methodical approach to how she does things, which includes friends. For a while it seems like she was very transactional with things, and, also like Shiki, it took meeting someone else like her that she cared about (I.e. Wien) to help her naturally start to care more about the people around her.

Unfortunately, we are somewhat limited in what we get to see Tomari do beyond that. Unlike Margarete, Tomari is only around for this season, leaving her to have the least screentime out of the entire cast. We get to see that she really grows to care about Kanon by the end of the season, but we really do not get many other interactions between her and the rest of the third years. The same can be said for the second-years, minus Natsumi.

At the very least, her relationships with Natsumi, Wien and Kanon are very nicely fleshed out. If Liella ever gets a movie, I hope we’ll have more time to see Tomari shine (maybe subunits??).

I also find it very cute that she keeps some jellyfish as pets. Also also, SakuSaku (Tomari’s VA) did a whole series breaking down the first two seasons of Liella in lead-up to season 3 coming out. It was really cool.

TLDR: 75/10 for the Jellyfish girl. I love how SakuSaku says “Aneeja”. TomaWien SSS-tier ship.

This brings us to the end of Liella (for now). Considering they got 3 seasons of anime, I have no idea whether or not they’ll get a movie of any sort, but I’d love to see it if they did! If not just to keep seeing these girls grow.

It’s been a very fun ride going through all 42 characters so far (even though I joined a few weeks late into Niji last Summer). I’ve had a wonderful time writing all these paragraphs, and thank you very much to Camel Cultist for hosting. I too, haven’t really looked into much about Hasunosora or LLLL, but I’d always be happy to keep going.

C: I love Tomari’s character design, I love her image color and jellyfish theme, and I love a stoic logical character. And I enjoy her voice. She was all set up to be my favorite in Liella until we actually got her anime episodes and I just did not like her backstory or motivations at all. Too much focus on Natsumi without her being her own person, and I know it’s a kid show but the storyline took itself SO seriously when it was basically like “Natsumi had not become a genius master of any craft by the time she finished middle school, so she made the decision to give up and focus entirely on money, and I, her younger sister, think that was rational and correct and that she’s doomed to fail in this idol stuff and be sad (even though she’s ALREADY WON LOVE LIVE)”. We’re telling this story so dramatically but it’s silly! It’s funny at best, like the kind of melodramatic overreaction you’d expect them to be self-aware about, but instead there’s no self awareness at all.

Part of it was just that I didn’t want a tragic backstory for Natsumi’s moneygrubbing, I just wanted her to be a funny evil child capitalist on her own. Characters bad habits don’t always need explaining. Part of it was that it was trying to get me to take the “she failed everything she tried!” so seriously when it’s like “gee I wonder why she didn’t publish a bestselling novel when she was 10yo” lmao. And part of it was because that would be a weak story to have as NATSUMI’s tragic backstory, but they made it Tomari’s as well. So Tomari doesn’t really get anything of her own and instead her entire life revolves around her sister.

Still love her design, icon, colors, vibes. But she really took a hit in my estimation when she got actual story.

I do like her relationship with Margarete. That’s fun. And her random use of English. I just wish they’d told a different story about her.

D: I like her! Most of the Liella characters are too "wacky" and annoying for me, but Tomari is nice and mature! She never feels too loud or like a 5 year old, which is a really nice change of pace

Unfortunately, her run was so short that I feel like I barely know her. The fact that she only has one season is such a horrible idea and staff really should've thought it through (although nothing about Liella feels thought through). Her character focuses so heavily on Natsumi that I really wish she got more time to shine on her own too

It would've been SO nice if Kanon never joined Margarete and Tomari, she just took so much screentime away from characters that REALLY needed it. She had two full seasons of being shoved down my throat, WHY is she butting in on the characters that only have one?? The relationship between the first years is barely there, even though a lot of people were hoping for them to be besties

Ultimately I do like her, but there's SO much missed potential here because of how she has the least screentime in the franchise (Ceras and Izumi also only have one season, but Hasu seasons are hours long compared to an anime season)

E: Yet another sisters' arc. With a tension that reminded me of the Kazunos, and also the Ayases with their "hierarchical swap" in some situations, when Alisa turned into the one to give Eli advice (on her "narcoleptic speech") and even comfort (pre Snow Halation).

On the grander scale Tomari now seems to have become Wien's counterpart. Wien initially was attracted by Kanon's "magnetism" as "magnetic hero", but at last she found Tomari as complement. "And at last I see the light..."

And now at last Wien wanna tell her people at home that once left her alone to kick rocks. Kanon now there at Wien's old home, probably soon once again confronted by and confronting the situation, like already on several occasions ar Yuigaoka, due to her magnetism as magnetic hero.

But Wien's old home's far away, at least geographically for now. So Tomari's got to take over at Wien's new home. Maybe even like a "Kanan 2.0"...

And it's one of several open arcs that demand a S4 or film imo....

F: Tomari feels like she was created for the sole purpose of making Natsumi look better since we don't get a small hint of her existing in all of season 2 and I remember the comments on the Natsumi discussion where people initially didn't like her or straight up don't like her but really liked her dynamic with tomari so I can only imagine what the japanese audience said about her. As a character she really got the shorter end of the stick by being introduced in season 3 so off the top of my head she's just the stoic jellyfish girl and I wish we got to see what Natsumi meant by tomari being more money hungry than her. Her dynamic with Margarete was fun since tomari barely shows up to practice since she's more of a hobbyist while Margarete lives for that shit and I feel like other than Kanon tomari is the only other person Margarete feels truly comfortable with since she's the only one who she has no "pre existing beef" with prior to joining liella