name        : Margarete Wien
kanji       :  ウィーン・マルガレーテ
color       : #e49dfd
mbti        : INTJ(37), ENTJ(32)

(idol.st)
background:
A girl from Vienna, Austria; the youngest daughter of an important musical family. She has been called a prodigy for singing since she was a little girl. In order to follow her older sisters' footsteps, Margarete tried to enroll in a prestigious music academy in Vienna, but she failed the entrance exam. However, her parents decided to give her a second chance, and they made a deal with her involving Love Live, which is famous enough for people in Vienna to know about it. If she wins first place in the Love Live, they will use their influence to get her admitted to the academy as a transfer student. Determined to achieve her dreams, Margarete decided to travel to Japan in order to participate in Love Live.

After Liella! was chosen to advance to the finals of Love Live!, Margarete's family suggested bringing Kanon back with her to Austria instead and learn music from her, much to her disagreement. Once graduating from middle school, Margarete enrolls in Yuigaoka and forms her own school idol club in an attempt to take down Liella! on her own terms. Margarete picks up a part time job working at the Shibuya family cafe, and reluctantly lives with Kanon's family during her stay.

personality:
Margarete is a cold-blooded, passionate and stoic girl, who can act recklessly or overdramatically when fussy. She is extremely competitive and outright hostile to other idols she sees as threats. Originally signing up as a Love Live! contestant as a solo idol in her final year of middle school, she boldly makes it known that she has no interest in either school idols or Love Live! other than setting out to prove she can easily win the competition by herself.

Once forming a unit with Kanon, Margarete slowly reveals her kinder side, but she never loses her competitive nature. Margarete isn't fond of people who don't put in a lot of effort, as shown when she argues with Tomari who has been skipping practice.

(namu.wiki)
Why do I have to introduce myself in a place like this?
Well, never mind, I’ll tell you what I’m talking about. My name is Bin Margarete.
To me, who has been called a singing genius since childhood,
Liella! and Love Live! are nothing more than stepping stones, but
as I perform as a school idol, I’m going to move everyone who listens.
So, if you guys get moved, please let me know.
Th...of course, you will definitely be moved, though.[7]

(wikipedia)
Margarete is a cocky first-year exchange student from Austria who comes from a music-inclined family. She is competitive and outright hostile to other idols she sees as threats. Margrete picks up a part-time job working at the Shibuya family cafe and reluctantly lives with Kanon's family during her stay.

(reddit opinion)

A: I really liked her growth from season 2 where she was brought down to earth and realised fostering relationships with others is valuable to ones life. Her giving a pep talk to Kinako further showed her growth. Both Sumire and Margarete are similar in the aspect that they both are very proud girls that learn to humble themselves. Honestly a top 5 girl imo.

Now with character aside I really love yuina's voice ,it's probably amongst my favourites if not my favourite voice in LL. I'm first and foremost a Paychan oshi but Yuina is a close second. A goof but extremely entertaining to watch. And a girl with a good heart,her wanting to spread awareness for deaf people since her younger sister was deaf is extremely sweet of her.

B: Shibuya Kanon! (Vine boom sfx)

Margarete time!

Wien Margarete is a very interesting girl, since despite being a first year, she’s had two seasons of screentime to grow and develop as a character. The third season did a good job at making her a bit more empathetic, and seeing her relax and grow closer to the rest of Liella was really nice.

Margarete’s journey in season 2 is pretty much exactly what we’re shown. She comes in as an arrogant performer, but despite still being a middle schooler, absolutely has the talent to back it up. Interestingly, there are some nice parallels we can draw to Mia’s story, with having high expectations lead to a brash confidence to make up for insecurities. Of course, she ultimately loses to Liella, and Kanon, and has a bit of a breakdown (at least internally). It’s a pretty classic story arc, but the next season does a good job of expanding it and taking it to a new direction.

It’s not easy at all for Margarete to come to grips with not only being upstaged by Kanon, but also having her family make her learn from her. Kanon’s very nice about it, and is even willing to make her own group so she doesn’t have to be with the rest of Liella, but I don’t think it’s until Margarete meets Tomari at the start of season 3 that she begins to really change a lot.

Margarete had already begun to lose a bit of her brashness, but Tomari really brings out her softer side. Firstly, she doesn’t really care about her past or her bluster. It can at times come across as uncaring, but Tomari also is able to see into more of Margarete’s truer self. Not to mention, Tomari also has skills that Margarete is forced to acknowledge. So it’s pretty natural that the two of them become, well, not exactly friends at first, but they seem to understand each other well.

Over the course of season 3, Margarete doesn’t lose her competitive nature, or confidence in her self, but refines it and becomes a bit more mature with how she acts. After spending a lot of time with Liella once TomaKanoTe joins up, I think she really does start to reflect more on how she acted the previous year.

Plus, learning more about her family dynamic makes it a lot easier to understand how she came to be who she was. I’m not saying she’s fully sympathetic, but it makes her a much more enjoyable character.

A lot of Margarete’s moments in season 3 are focused around her relationship with Kanon, so there’s not much that needs to be said. Chisato was actually once of the first girls to try and get through to Margarete in season 2, and I think Wien also really respects her for her leadership of Liella. I think to some extent Sumire and Natsumi could empathize well with Margarete’s anxieties towards her self-worth and her abilities. I’d also like to see her and Keke chat about being international students, but there wasn’t really time for that.

I sort of wish we got a bit more time for Margarete to really become friends with the rest of the Liella girls, but season 3 already had a lot going on. At least her relationship with Tomari and Kanon feels very natural.

TLDR: 77/10 for the Austrian girl. Yuina is great. TomaWien SSS-tier ship

C: Cant say much that hasn’t been said before, but I’ll ramble for a bit. Margarete is tied in a joint first place for my favourite love live character, alongside Mei and Sumire. I think she might have one of the most clear and well-done arcs, out of all love live characters. Every iteration of her has something to love, and her growth from the cold, arrogant edgy prick in Season 2 into the way more mature, open and honest character she becomes in Season 3 was handled excellently in my opinion. It’s so nice seeing her develop actual friendships, with Kanon and Tomari especially. Season 3 used Kanon in such a great way, and her interactions with Margarete speak to both of their characters personalities and growth.

I think there’s also a lot of interesting theorising that can be done into her character, and what makes her the way she is / was. I really hope we get more from her in a potential movie, or season 4, as her childhood, relationship with her family, & time living alone in Japan hold a lot of potential for her story and character. If they do, I hope they don’t lean into forgiveness. From the little we’ve seen/heard of them, they don’t seem like the most loving bunch, and it would be interesting to see them tackle that sort of subject, I believe they could do it really well if they tried.

In retrospect, looking back to her in Season 2, it’s actually pretty funny how she was portrayed. I like the interpretation of her as this try-hard edgelord, who desperately wants to fuck with people - like throwing stones at Kanon’s window, and purposefully messing with her, going so far as to cause her to hallucinate. The amount of effort she puts into making herself seem intimidating is hilarious to me and just makes her even more endearing.

Her songs are absolutely stand outs from season 2. Butterfly Wing & Edelstein are by far the most villainous songs love live has done - Saint Snow coming in 2nd place here. Unlike SunnyPa or A-Rise, she felt like she was an actual villain, with a cold intent to destroy her opponents, when inside she was just lonely, and in reality she needed the companionship she had pushed away out of defence. Her other songs, such as her new Aspire solo, Bubble Rise, and Dolce are all fantastic too. Haven’t listened to Aspire in full, but from the previews it’s likely my 2nd favourite, after Mei’s.

I could ramble on for years about how amazing Margarete is, however I’ve been interrupted like 5 times whilst writing this and can’t remember what I have and haven’t covered. I hope this was coherent enough, and also hope we get to see more of her and Sumire, as there’s a lot of comparisons that can be drawn between their personalities and growth 🦋

D: Liella wa teki da! Margarete time!

Another member of the international students club, Wien Margarete is initially a stoic and cold character, and really competitive, with an attitude that kind of was on the verge of being irritating for me, but as a rival character during S2, I empathised with her, it was interesting how they implemented angsty songs with her (which later on they brought back with DOLLCHESTRA which is awesome), giving a breath of fresh air into the anime (I always felt like rival groups brought something new in the anime, A-RISE emphasised on techno music, Saint Snow focused on rock/metal and Wien brought angst songs, and while I haven’t reached Orgaz far on Hasu, I love the vibes Edelied gives with the violin on the background), so while I didn’t like her character that much on the beginning, I always respected how daring and unique she was, showing skill but becoming public enemy.

Of course her main spotlight comes in S3, after she enrolls in Yuigaoka, and I found it funny that the first thing she does is to attempt to become Lanzhu and create another club, being flustered when Kanon suddenly decides to join her club, trying to shoo her away for being her enemy, but as she accepts Kanon and Tomari and spends time training with both, she softens up, learns and overcomes her mistakes (Bubble Rise episode was a nice redemption arc for her), and learns to rely on others more while knowing to subtly admit her rivals are strong, (like in the Special Color episode when she tells Kanon they have to train) keeping the competitive side both at school and at home, I definitely enjoyed seeing how she bonded with Aria by teaching her how to bake and firing her up in the process. And let’s not forget how she knows how to enjoy good food, the episode in the Shanghai hotel when she sneaks to get food was hilarious.

While nearsighted at first only focusing on beating Liella and returning to Vienna, but eventually learning to respect and becoming fond of Yuigaoka and staying, and aiming high by striving to win with Liella.

Her relationships, while not too developed, it’s clear that while she doubted Kanon, she also respected her as a capable senpai, and with Tomari, while she found her motivation lacking, she knew her capabilities. As for the others, while there was not much, it was shown that she admired Kinako and Natsumi for their honesty and earnestness to admit their flaws and seeking her, their kouhai, to know their flaws and be willing to fix them, to the point that she accepts aiding them, who once were her rivals.

She might be in the bottom half of my favourites, but she grew on me over the last season for how she is. While Aspire solo songs haven’t released yet on streaming services, I am confident to say ルカ will be my favourite solo song of her, the previews were just awesome. Hope we get more international representation in the future!

E: Where do I even start with Margarete? She’s tied with Emma as my favorite girl in the franchise and, despite season 2’s hiccups, has an incredible character and backstory on par with that of Mari.

I find Margarete to be an incredibly realistic character. Yeah yeah her backstory is riddled with season 2’s pacing issues, but her rivalry with Kanon feels very genuine. Watching her pull a Kanye West at the prelims (NOT NEW KANYE I’m stopping that joke before it can be made) and then postpone her dream of moving back home to stay and train under Kanon was surprising to see (if only it was handled better).

Once in TomaKanoTe, Margarete’s personality really begins to shine. I’m a hard proponent of much of her character development being softer throughout season 3, but that’s precisely why I like it so much. You have to watch closely to see how Margarete gets closer with the other girls, how she stops taking herself as seriously all the time, and how she begins to truly find love in music again. She remains grounded throughout her time in Liella and is a great foil to some of the more trope-y second years (as much as I do love them).

While I am sad that she chose to stay in Japan rather than going home to Austria with Kanon, I think it will ultimately help her growth. In a hypothetical movie, I’d love to see her move back and take on more of a mentor role with Kanon, flipping the script from season 3. I think doing so would really showcase just how much she’s grown.

Not to mention she has the best design in the series. I love her eyes in particular.

But yeah, I love Margarete. I’m not usually a fan of tsundere or tsundere-adjacent characters, but Margarete is able to act cold without it feeling trope-y. Love her and am so happy that she’s in Liella!

F: I thought it was interesting how she serves as an anti-Kanon. Kanon started off timid and selfless to a fault, but eventually acknowledges she needs to stand on her own and take initiative in things. She's also way more honest with herself than Margarete, who starts off profoundly selfish, stubborn, and arrogant, but learns to think about and acknowledge others. Both still have their initial traits even at series' end, but it's a learning process. Naturally, we start with Kanon because cowardice is a more immediately palatable and relatable flaw, while Margarete definitely tested my patience a lot.

While I was annoyed that she seemed all sweet after the Bubble Rise performance, only to immediately snap back to her arrogant self the next episode, in retrospect, that was a better story direction than her becoming a sanitized version of herself. What ultimately made me respect her is that out of the remaining 6 Liella members, she's the only one that has drive, initiative, and motivation comparable to the OG 5, and I think Liella would be pretty directionless without her. She's stubborn, and has trouble being honest about her feelings, but her talent and potential is undeniable.

G: Yet another Tsundere deconstruction: Abrasive and dismissive at the beginning, and via a crisis full of turning points developing a softer more affectionate behavior.

This requires a suitable complement: Kanon for the professional tasks, and Tomari, as S3's conclusion hints, for the emotional needs...

The deconstructional lair tho: The reasons for the Tsundere behavior are shown - neglect by being left alone at home as kid.

Kanon the "firewoman" now there...

Margarete even developed gothic vibe, following into the footsteps of "Datenshi Yohane" and her darkest hour.

And Margarete finally found a reason and opportunity to stay and to tell her people at home to (quote) kick rocks.

So it's once again the "Escape" master plot, that started off with Birb in SIP S2 and got turned up to Eleven by Mari, and would always get renewed since then.

"And I know that I'm damned if I never get out, and maybe I'm damned if I do..." - Jim Steinman's post-apocalyptic "Bat" cycle. Meat Loaf one of his emissaries...

Even more gothic: Steinman's "Dance of the Vampires" musical, commissioned by a Viennese production team and premiering in Vienna in 1997...

It's the classical Vampire plot: Bitten by a Vampire, turning into a Vampire, no way back - and no way out...?

"Tyre tracks and broken hearts, that's all we're leaving behind - it doesn't matter what we lose, it only matters what we're going to find..." - Steinman again (and Bonnie Tyler this time).

Mari tried it and succeeded; and she put a big emphasis on the "we": " That's all we are leaving behind..." because she wanted Kanan to accompany her...

Margarete now has Tomari. Can this work? Because Margarete also gave Aria cooking lessons. The "Salzburger Nockerl" ep and arc. And she's living at Shibuyas'.

So they ought to watch out for the next potential "powderkeg triangle"...

S4 or a film urgently needed.

(personality-database.com opinion)

A: *Written as of ep 4 of S3, so subject to change.

I think Fi-tert Se-inf (INTJ) paints a more accurate portrayal of Margarete than Se-tert Fi-inf (ENTJ). In my post, I will be addressing Margarete's Fi-tert, Se-inferior, and lastly a broad overview of INTJ vs ENTJ.

--Fi tertiary--
Fi-tert: "Stubborn identity/emotional confidence" "Having simply defined but strong values, can identify how they feel about an issue"

• S3 E1 Margarete says: "If I join Liella, I can get closer to victory. I can go back to Vienna - I know that! But I want to BEAT you... otherwise I'll never be able to live it down!" Margarete refuses to make her way back to Vienna by riding the coattails of Liella, which I find indicative of Fi-tert rather than Fi-inf (someone who is Fi-inf would probably be way less concerned about the "integrity" of the method being used, and be much more tunnel-visioned on simply reaching that goal. For example, Natsumi)

--Se inferior--
Se-tert vs Se-inf: "Tertiary functions can have a big impact on behavior. Like all the tertiary functions it's often used to blow off steam, but can also be used inappropriately. Stressed ENxJs can become very hedonistic, and even healthy ones can stretch themselves pretty thin. If you deal with ENTJs you'll find a lot work hard but also party hard, and a lot of the reason for that is thanks to Se."
"People with Se-inf, on the other hand, often seem awkward, uncomfortable, or even clumsy in Se-type situations. You're unlikely to see them going out to sensory driven public events, such as a concert or club (though this may be a guilty pleasure of theirs); and they’re much more likely than ENxJs to appear uptight and rigid."

• S3 E3 (I believe this was the EP) Margarete mentions she tends to get overwhelmed by a lot of physical/environmental stimulation. Supports Se-inf more than Se-tert so far.

--INTJ vs ENTJ overview--
TeNi (ENTJ) - "Reality Check then Plan"
NiTe (INTJ) - "Plan then Reality Check"

ENTJs are more likely to over-delegate tasks, while INTJ are more likely to under-delegate. "When you under-delegate, you are the only one staying awake at night thinking of solutions. When you over-delegate, you are in danger of being held responsible for a huge mess that you had no awareness of."

Overall, Margarete definitely leans more towards INTJ imo.