
name        : Ai Miyashita
kanji       : 宮下 愛
color       : #ff5800
mbti        : ESFP(103), ESFJ(22)

(introduction)
Yay~. I'm Miyashita Ai.
A school friend recommended that I start being a school idol!!!
Please take care of me, I love you all! Just like my name!
Ai's gag time begins… Huh? Don't do that?
… … Ah, um, sorry. I'll do it again.
Hmm, believe it or not, Ai is actually a top student who's good at everything.
Doesn't look like it? No, no~ I'm telling you, it's true! I'm good at studying, sports, and dressing up… … Look~!
A friend told me,
"[The world of school idols is completely different from what you've seen so far.
So, why don't you give it a try?]"
Hearing words like that really sets me on fire.
So! I've set my sights on becoming the number one school idol!
I want to see a world I haven't seen before!
And I want to show that scenery to everyone too!
So, let's move forward together!

(nijichizu)
Come on, it'll be fun! A girl with a charm that draws people in. Her specialty is making friends. She loves puns and makes a lot of them, but she might laugh at them more than anyone else.

(idol.st)
background:
Along with Ayumu Uehara and Rina Tennoji, Ai works with Famitsu App. She has known her neighbor, Misato Kawamoto since she was a child, and they are close enough for her to consider Misato as her big sister. Because both of her parents work at her family's restaurant, she was mostly raised by her grandmother.

personality:
As a suggestible, friendly and sociable person who's always willing to help, Ai has a lot of friends and can be seen chatting with strangers at any given time. She is also very caring, especially with her family and friends. In the neighborhood she lives, she tends to refer to all sorts of people around as siblings. Ai is very empathetic, selfless and supportive, as she loves helping others and is also very open about how much she cares about their feelings. This is particularly evident with Rina and her childhood friend Misato, as she's shown to constantly be loving and supportive to them. Because she is a gyaru, she can be mistaken as the type of person to skip school or be rebellious. However, she has very good grades and is very fun-loving and nice. She can be a bit loud, but never in an obnoxious way, as it just serves as a mood-maker to her fellow idols. Her cheerfulness, however, mustn't be taken at all for her being dumb; Ai is indeed very intelligent and an excellent student. Also, despite her energetic, cheerful nature and somewhat goofy appearance, she's also very capable of being levelheaded and well-organized. Ai tends to speak very casually, using a lot of slang. She is also known for her puns, many of which are not very funny to those around her. She easily laughs at bad puns, too, as she has a rather childish sense of humor. Despite Ai having a flawless image in school and being very popular, Ai is very down-to-earth and does not perceive herself as better than others, especially her fellow school idols. She even seems unaware of her reputation, as she never pretends to be someone she isn't, nor is she conscious of whatever image she is giving off. In fact, contrary to her 'cool' and 'popular' image, Ai's frequent use of puns can sometimes come off as so lame that the other members react with visible exasperation.

(wikipedia)
Ai is an energetic second year who is an honor student despite her gyaru appearance. She loves to make puns especially using her given name ('Ai' means 'love' in Japanese) and refers to herself as 'Ai-san.' She joined the school idol club because she likes to try new things. She is usually kind and friendly, and quick to socialize. While she is intelligent, she is also quite goofy and has a rather childish sense. She is Rina's only friend at first, and her caring, supportive nature is shown when she helps her overcoming her social issues. Ai is described as a 'true gyaru type school idol' (ガチギャル系スクールアイドル, gachi gyaru-kei sukūru aidoru).

(Official Comment)
April 2019 Ranking Comments (1st Place)
Good job in class! The sports festival is coming up soon, so shall we practice the three-legged race right away?♪ If you're my partner, first place is a sure thing, but we should always be safe! I always think this, but aren't the straps tied around your feet a bit loose? Let's tighten them a little more. I'll hold this strap , you know♪ Alright, we're ready! Let's go. Two, three, one, two. One, two. Yeah, yeah, this is good! One, two. One, two. At this rate, we're definitely going to be first. ......Whoa! Sorry, sorry. My balance just slipped a little...... Are you okay? Huh? I'm fine! Because you protected me♪ I was surprised you're the type to throw your body to protect me! Now, let's keep practicing and do our best! One, two. One, two. Wait, you're starting to lose the beat. Match my rhythm. One, two. One, two. .....You know, isn't it a little nerve-wracking to do something this close and synchronize your breath like this? Yeah. Your movements and mine are in sync... I don't know how to put it. Should I say we feel really close to each other... How about you? Since you're my partner, do you feel me close and close? Thanks! Then, let's join forces and take first place♪수발Asisto발

(reddit opinion)

A: I love Ai! (ai "ai" ai) Back when Nijigasaki was being announced as Perfect Dream Project, I chose Ai as my kind of "provisional favourite"? Just based on the descriptions I'd heard from other people and guessing her personality from her looks, I decided "yeah, I'll pick her for now". (I sorta do this for every Love Live group, like I haven't watched Hasu yet and my provisional favourite is Rurino.)

I took a step back from the franchise before ALL-STARS came out, but honestly if I'd stuck around I think Ai would've stayed as my favourite, I love her story in that game. She seems at first to be this intimidating perfect "it girl", but it gets peeled back with her pun love and her helping habit and other weird stuff like her fear of lightning (lol). The more I learned of Ai the more I liked her, and it felt like there was always more to learn about her.

And then all those little quirks and habits got tied together and explained very satisfyingly with her neighbour-sister, Misato. I really love Ai's backstory with her; I have a close relative IRL who's chronically ill and and Ai's response to seeing Misato felt very real to me. Their relationship is really sweet too, how Ai trusts her enough to fully drop her persona and talk through her worries.

Ai's no longer my favourite, not because she worsened in my eyes, but because I found Nijigaku members who I liked more. Still though, she's cemented as a top-tier character for me, and I'll always love her story and character.

B: 
MY BEST NIJI GIRL!

The moment I first heard Meccha Going!! and saw her design, I knew I was gonna love her! I find her to be one of the more underrated girls in Niji which is a shame as most of her songs slap and her episode in the first season of the anime is good.

I love her extroverted, carefree and caring personality. Her relationship with Rina is so cute, she really helps Rina get out of her shell, always been a sucker for the “extrovert adopting a shy introvert” trope. Her love for puns is also very endearing. I also love how she plays as a foil for Karin in DiverDiva.

I cannot forget to mention Nacchan either. All of the seiyuus in LL are amazing and super talented but Nacchan has always been in my top 5. She has such great energy and in every live she does, she looks like she’s having the time of her life on stage.

Nothing could ever make me hate her. Ai (Ai) love Ai! 🧡👏

C: During my first viewing, I didn't dislike her in the anime, but I didn't really have strong feelings either. When listening through the Nijigasaki discography, I thought Tanoshii no Tensai was Ai's only decent song, then I found out on the song's wiki page that in the game, she held a performance at a hospital to cheer up the children. I watched the playthrough of that chapter and was so moved by it because I've done a ton of volunteer work that focuses on the wellbeing of children, and I instantly bumped my personal ranking of Ai as a contender for top 3. Re-watched the anime 2 more times and definitely felt that Ai's presence became so much stronger for me. Her ability to break down people's walls like she did for Rina, Misato, and even Shioriko is also really incredible. Finally, only her smile is powerful enough to rival Yu's smile.

Regarding Murakami Natsumi, she deserve an incredible amount of respect and praise. It takes an incredible amount commitment to pull of the role of playing Ai, and to me it seems like she gives it her absolute best everytime, especially in lives as her performances are incredibly exhausting. Watching her stuff from her channels, Sonic Gamers, and random clips are also really fun and endearing. I don't really focus on seiyuu, but if I had to pick a favourite then without a doubt it would be Murakami Natsumi.

D: 
I really like her energetic style and how much positivity she brings to the group, along with the puns to cheer the group and make Yuu die of laughter, but I think what i like the most about her is how easy she is to approach and how easily she can approach others, she would be the easiest to befriend out of all Niji members. And of course RinaAi best ship, I loved the first episodes with the Extrovert adopts Introvers trope, how she was able to break through Rina’s shell and let her find the courage she needed to do her live. Unfortunately she is kinda underrepresented in the anime imo, although her presence is clearly noticeable. And what to say about S2? Her relationship with Misato, how she became an idol to cheer her up and how deeply she cared about her, and the formation of DiverDiva, I loved the subunit before watching Nijigasaki (and where one of the reasons I got into it), and watching the development in the anime just made me appreciate it much more.

Overall she’s not one of my favourites, but I definitely liked how she tries to contribute to the group and how impactful her presence can be at times, if I were to befriend any Niji members, the first one would really be her. My favourite song of her is サイコーハート, unfortunately her solo style isn’t really for me, I prefer the vibe of DiverDiva much more. And totally didn’t forget to add that Starlight was my favourite song of Karin in the previous discussion.

E: 
The Diver Diva ep revealed that also Ai's a character where mask and true face are each other's opposite and complement at the same time.

Ai developed her funny demeanor pretty early to cheer up Misato. It didn't really work; Misato still reacted to Ai's idol dream pretty reserved if not passive aggressive with a "Yeah indeed no so bad!" kind of statement, bringing Ai to the edge of emotionally imploding. Karin in her characteristic way caught Ai... the beginning of Diver Diva...

A companion of Ai's who fully and truly appreciates Ai's cheerful vibe: Rina...

From comedic to dark within a couple of seconds - to me this was a 180° flip a la Lucky Star. And a signature stunt of LL's story telling.

(personality-database.com opinion)

A - ESFP: I really don't think she is a high Ni user. Se is a very concrete function, it perceives info through what things seems to be in the moment (how they present themselves) and take their actions based on that. Ni looks for deeper meaning and is an unconcious process, it has random insights that comes from the sensorial info which they fit in a big picture. I don't remember of any moment in which Ai seems to use Ni in that way. So, before ENFJ i would consider ESFJ but i don't really see her as a high Si user and comparing to Setsuna (ESFJ) it really doesn't make sense. Instead, i would say high Se fits a lot more like Ai is: very concrete, looks at things as how they present themselves and is very spontaneous and connected to the moment. She shows no difficult in dealing with new info and shows to be very adaptable to her enviroment (For example one of her main traits being quickly making puns). I considered Fe for Ai but i really can't see her using it. While Fe users base their own values on the group, those being very flexible and adaptable depending to who they're talking to, Ai doesn't do that. Based on her bond episodes, on the episode 1 Ayumu asks how Ai has so many friends [1], and she answer "Just act normal, when i'm talking to friends their friends come, so i say hello, and then we're friends" And i think it seems very Se-Fi. The way she looks at how she gets close to people isn't based on adapting herself to others, but being loyal to her own values and how she perceives herself, "acting normal" which is Fi. Her views on it also seems very Se, being pretty much concrete and without too much depth basically focusing at how the info presents itself. There is also an episode where Setsuna is carrying some boxes and Ai offers to help [2], when she gives her justifications to it: "You should've asked us for help. We're your friends after all" which seems to be an action who parts from her internal values of how friends should treat their friends instead of just adapting to what Setsuna needed her to be. When Setsuna asks why Ai is always helping others she answers "Everyone helps people in need when they see them right?" and "I just want everyone smiling, my big sis taught me that" [3] Which again strikes me as a Fi value. And then the thing that really made me conclude she is a Fi user was when she was writing the lyrics for Yuu & Ai, in which she read some books to see how she could write the lyrics and tried to follow things without her own authenticity. Then, Yu sayed that even though the lyrics were good they didn't had Ai's normal personality, it was lacking her essence which is always acting blunt and upfront about her feelings, which Ai agrees [4]. Then when she makes the lyrics while just being herself, it went perfect. That shows that Ai has difficult on adapting her usual personality to others' needs which is Fe, and even if she acts very caring and friendly towards others, this is based on her Fi values and usual personality. About her enneagram, i don't think she is a 7w8. Instead, 7w6 makes a lot more sense. 7 core because her focus is on having her needs fullfiled through exciting external activities, and her relationship with Yu really makes me think of a wing 6: She depends a lot on Yu's judgement of her actions and looks at Yu as a guide (for example when she was writing the lyrics of her solo). She has a strong 2 fix on her tritype which i think it's the reason she was confused as an ENFJ considering enneagram 2 has some resemblances to how Fe behaves. 9 as a gut core would also make sense considering she dislikes conflict and looks for harmony on the enviroment. Her tritype is 729

B: I'm actually disappointed that ENFJ has more votes than ENFP when it doesn't actually make sense at all and ENFP would be her 2nd choice of type or even her anime type (I can explain why I see her more of an ENFP in anime if needed tho). This girl has no Fe.

I'm gonna quote someone that quoted someome else in other arguments about these functions: "To directly quote user Sherlouch: Fi is a very subjective function and it varies its values for its users, and if a Fi user has important values in taking care of others, they can be even more caring and empathetic than Fe users. Fi isn't equal to egoism and Fe isn't equal to altruism."

I dare y'all to read this and tell me that you don't see Ai in it, no matter if it's All Stars or Anime version. So please, can we stop robbing Fi users from being caring and emphatetic as well?

C: I personally am for the fact that she is a house. She's pretty shrewd and friendly. She saw Rina's pain in the anime. She also mentioned that she is afraid of pressure, which can be seen from her dialogues. And she unlearned slang for her grandmother. I also think she is Si aux, her love for her grandmother, for the family business, and she skillfully uses Nе for jokes. If anything, I just started learning functions, correct me

D - ESFJ: Ai is ESFJ, not ESFP. Don't let yourself fool by her energetic nature and somewhat goofy appearance, besides the fact she's actually well-put together, she's definitely a clear Fe Dom. If she was an ESFP, she would be a Se Dom led by the tendency to live for today, in the present moment. Ai is instead a clear Fe Dom, with her dominant trait being her awareness of how others are and make them feel at ease. She's fun, yes, but she's primarily altruistic, caring, and openly supportive. Just see her interactions with Rina, Ai was the one who helped her coming out of her shell with her kindness. Then, later on in S2, with her childhood friend Misato.



