
name        : Ayumu Uehara
kanji       : 上原 步夢
color       : #ed7d95
mbti        : ISFJ(166), ISFP(4)

(introduction)
Hello everyone, nice to meet you. I am Ayumu Uehara. Um, I'm a bit nervous since this is my first time sending a message to you all.
However, becoming a school idol is a dream I found with a precious friend that I want to achieve together, so just like my name suggests, I want to work hard and move forward step by step toward that dream!
My singing and dancing are still lacking, and my appearance is… ordinary, but,
um, I will do my absolute best at putting in the effort, so please cheer for me!
Thank you.

(nijichizu)
A hard worker who takes everything on diligently, one step at a time. She decided to become a school idol after you asked her to be one. She loves you very much.

(idol.st)
background:
An ordinary girl with no exceptional talents, Ayumu is seemingly content with just living a normal high school life. But when she and her best friend, Yu Takasaki—or the player in All Stars—stumbled upon a school idol performance for the first time, a new path would suddenly appear in Ayumu's world. Despite not being able to sing or dance, Ayumu would nevertheless venture on to become a school idol herself. In All Stars, she becomes a school idol because the player loved school idols. When conflict arises that causes her to reconsider being an idol, she realizes that she now loves being a school idol, and she wants to continue being a school idol for herself, with or without their input (although welcomed). In the anime, she becomes a school idol because she wants to, however, when Yu seems like she's drifting away, she starts reconsidering whether she even wants to be an idol without her best friend by her side. However, she later realizes that she became a school idol for herself, with or without Yu, and that she will always be friends with Yu, whether they walk the same path or not.

personality:
Ayumu is a hardworking girl that puts everything into what she does. She does not believe she is very skilled at her school idol activities, but she continues to try her hardest to excel in them. She is generally insecure in her abilities. Her struggles revolve largely on confidence and how that relates to her pathway to her dream as a school idol. This is illustrated by both her solos songs and the Nijigasaki anime. She is kind, cheerful, and friendly, but a bit shy and tends to be clumsy at times. She often responds to the mischief from Karin Asaka and Kasumi Nakasu in a pure manner, which throws the two of them off-guard. However, she doesn't do this intentionally and is truly a pure-hearted girl overall She is very protective of her and her childhood best friend's relationship. This manifests in jealous glances when Yu interacts with or praises other girls and disheartened remarks when Yu claims she can't pick a favorite. In instances where her personality is satirized, she tends to act extremely controlling, pulling Yu off to the side and isolating her from the other girls in the club, and even displaying murderous tendencies (albeit, jokingly).

(wikipedia)
Ayumu is a second year who became a school idol after a suggestion by the protagonist, who is her childhood friend. She is hard-working and kind, but a little bit shy and insecure. However, she tends to be a little too dependent on Yu at times. Ayumu belonged to the general course. She is distinguishable by a semi short hairstyle, a hair bun with a tiny braid around it, and hairpins on her right side of her head. Ayumu likes to put effort toward everything, especially as a school idol. Ayumu is described as a 'hard-working type school idol' (コツコツ系スクールアイドル, kotsukotsu-kei sukūru aidoru).

(personality-database.com opinion)
A: Ayumu: "Come to think of it, we washed dishes together at summer camp when we were in grade school too"
Yuu: "Oh yeah. When we made curry, right?"
Ayumu: "No! That was in middle school!"
Yuu: "Oh, right."

B: Ayumu feels more like a 6 core to me, especially after the last episode.
The basic fear of 6s is having no support/guidance in life. In short: having no one to turn to, or feeling unprotected.

Ayumu is extremely dependent on Yu to the point where it could be considered unhealthy. She “needs her.” As we know, Ayumu only started being a school idol because of Yu.

She is scared of losing Yu, and she gets jealous easily due to her very apparent abandonment issues - Ayumu becomes paranoid or panicky when she sees Yu with other girls (episode 10; episode 2; etc)

6s can pose as 9s easily, especially in group settings, which is why I understand the consensus of 9w1 Ayumu.
Also Ayumu has the textbook SEI behavior so I don’t really understand that IEE vote.

C: 
Well,the first 9 trait that's most obvious in Ayumu is how much she dislikes conflict and separation. In the SIFAS story,when Lanzhu recruits some of the Niji girls intoher association,you can see how troubled Ayumu is. She felt sad that her fellow members were leaving her,but she still supported their decision. Kasumi confronted them,however Ayumu preferred to just stay out of it. Why? Because her 9 self would rather stay quiet than speak up and potentially cause even more separation. 6s are in the reactive triad,a 6,being afraid of betrayal and abandonment + reactive triad,would've definitely confronted them about it in some way. When Yuu/Player comes back,and goes to the rooftop to chat with the niji girls and Ai and Karin appear,Kasumi tells Ayumu to "speak her mind" and "say something". To which Ayumu replies by stuttering and asking what she sould say. Do you really think that a reactive type like 6 would've just stood there trembling at the sight of "speaking up"? No,I don't think so.

Another thing that I think is a big 9 trait is how much Ayumu likes to "merge" with the group and with other people,specially Yuu/Player. She always talks about doing things as a group,moving forward as a group,and specially with Yuu/Player,she always adapts to her agenda,supporting her in everything from the sidelines,and expecting Yuu to do the same for her with her dream of being an idol (Which showcases Ayumu's ennea 9 fear of separation)

Another 9 trait Ayumu has is that she always considers things from everyone's perspective,and she always says things like "I understand why she would do that" "I understand why they feel like that". That's peak 9 performance.

And lastly,her snapping moment with Yuu in the anime is peak 9>6 arrow. She's stressed because she thinks she's getting separated from Yuu (Ennea 9 core fear of separation and loss),so she gets stresses and starts showing unhealthy 6 traits. She overanalyzes Yuu's interaction with Setsuna,jumping to the conclusion that she cares more about Setsuna than her. This is the clearest example of a 9 disintegrating o 6 I've ever seen. However,in the moments where Ayumu is healthy and less stressed,we can see her 3 arrow a bit,with ger healthy competitiveness that she's got with the others.

Now that I've talked about the reasons why I believe Ayumu is a 9,let's explain- why do 9s mistype as 6?

Simply put,their core fears are kinda similar,fear of being alone (6),fear of loss of connection (9). So,how can we tell them apart? Easy,the coping mechanisms.
9s cope by detaching themselves whenever there is comflict,attempting to see everyone's point of view,trying to find common grounds.
6s cope by being hyper vigilant,always double checking to make sure everyone's on their side and checking others' agendas.

Ayumu only becomes paranoid and hyper vigilant when the Setsuna thing happens,aka when she becomes stressed,aka disintegration. Normal,average,everyday Ayumu just gets by,trying to not stand out,supporting her friends and being kind.

So,there you have it folks. I believe Ayumu is a 9w1. However,if you believe she's a 6w7,that's also valid. Enneagram IS after all a pseudoscience,so we shouldn't fight or be too serious over it.

Take care everyone!!

(reddit opinion)

A: Ayumu is definitely more complex than the simplistic yandere and usual bait for those who like a certain genre. Her desire for things that are "embarrassing" - cutesy stuff, idols - is balanced by her deep insecurities. When she gets caught practicing some cute intros in S1, or when she thinks she's left behind the cute outfits, or following Yu around town - it's all motivated by a deep insecurity. It's even quite well written - her natural desire/tendency to trust people overridden by her insecurity.

Who hasn't felt insecure at some time?

Whether it's friends (and longtime childhood friends at that), or liking "uncool" things, her insecurities definitely speak to a lot of people. And her slight madness is happily played up in the horror scene with Mia in that Nijiyon episode.

Heck, even admitting she's one of your favorites makes a lot of people uncomfortable, for some obscure reason.

But here we also have to give a lot of credit to Agupon for playing up her character in real life. I sometimes wonder if she's just channeling a real but hidden part of her real personality....

B: 
I think the yandere parts to her personality are fun, it’s played up a lot for comedy (Walking Dream is….wow lol) but the underlying attachment issues and insecurities she has are explored pretty decently.

I just really like her overall. Her design and personality feel the most unique out of all the LL “leaders”, and her voice and solo songs are always pleasant to listen to. She feels like such a fitting central figure for Niji conceptually; I loved the direction her character went in the anime with her actively taking the initiative to spread what she loves to someone who looked up to her

C: As for my own thoughts on Ayumu, they're mostly positive but mixed. She's a quiet, polite girl with insecurities that lead to a strong jealousy streak, and I think that's a great character idea. It's executed alright enough, she's definitely my favourite of the jealous childhood friends.

But it's like staff think that's all she is: like the Famitsu comics, while funny, just make her a different person. And what else could they do? You-the-player didn't exist yet, which is the bulk of what they see Ayumu as: your childhood friend.

So Ayumu struggles to stand on her own feet, which is a shame cause I think she could. I'd love to see her develop and grow past her jealousy, and become her own full person outside of Yu. And to be fair the show does do this with her trip to London, but we don't see it (outside of a manga spinoff I believe?), so it felt less impactful.

Ayumu's semi-friendship with Shioriko would be a good start, but it's pretty much dropped in the anime. Which is a shame, it was great growth for them both, and it'd be funny (and interesting) to see Yu grow jealous like the player in SIFAS.

Speaking of jealousy, I really like how Ayumu's story plays out in S1. Her buildup to the confrontation scene was excellently directed and a personal S1 highlight. I was disappointed though by its return in S2, with Ayumu stalking Yu in A-ZU-NA's episode-- it was funny-ish but it felt like character stagnation, a return to an old flaw that was supposed to have been resolved.

My favourite Ayumu song is probably Break the System, because man it just does not sound like an Ayumu song lolol. I'd love to see Ayumu challenged more like this in the future, she took it on very well.

D:  else during the first SIF, but who exactly is she doing this for? It’s hard to say whether or not she’s doing this for everyone, or just for Yu.

A big part of Ayumu’s character in season 1 is the idea of taking that first step to start on a new path, and then keeping up the pace with everyone around you. For Ayumu’s character, this makes perfect sense. She likes being an idol, she likes (read: as roommates) Yu, and wants to “grow step by step with everyone.” It’s not until the end of season 1 that these come into conflict, and season 2 aims to tackle those problems.

With the introduction of Lanzhu, and Yu deciding to pursue her new dream of supporting the rest of the girls through music, Ayumu’s focus now goes from just doing her best to do what she has to, to actively taking that next step. The A-Zu-Na episode shows this nicely when Ayumu joins Shizuku and Setsuna in performing an improvised play (NOT EASY TO DO BY THE WAY), and forms a subunit with them. This is her way of starting to take that next step in her journey. Ayumu now has a reason to take more charge with her experience as a school idol, with clearer goals in mind.

By the time season 2 ends, Ayumu herself recognizes that she needs to keep trying to challenge herself and continue to grow, and decides to go all the way to London for a few weeks, showcasing that not only is she willing to actively pursue her dreams, but that she understands how to balance her goals much better. I’m super excited to see how the movies treat her, too.

Overall, she’s a wonderfully developed character that doesn’t let herself be defined by the one-dimensional childhood friend archetype. I do enjoy a lot of the yandere jokes people make with her, as long as they remember there’s a real character under there. A+, 10/10 character.

If I had to summarize Ayumu in one word: Growth

(Official Comment)

February 2019 Special Message (1st Place)
Wow, that's amazing! Look! There are so many cherry blossoms! They're beautiful... Don't you think so too?
Cherry blossoms are beautiful just when they're in bloom, but they're also gorgeous and lovely when they're fluttering in the wind.
W-Whoa! I'm sorry. I was staring at them for too long. If you hadn't led my hand, I might have bumped into you... Ah... just like that... Since you went out of your way to hold my hand, can't you just keep holding it?
There are so many people and we're practically falling off, so is it okay? Thank you!
There are so many encounters during cherry blossom season, but I'm so glad I met you.
So, please take care of me in the future. I want to make even more memories with you!
June 2019 Special Message (2nd Place)
I was walking absentmindedly and ended up at the sea. The sound of the waves is so relaxing. I think I heard someone say that the sound of waves has a relaxing effect. The wide, blue sky, the white sandy beach, the beautiful sea. Just staring blankly or walking around gives me a magical feeling. For some reason, I feel like I’ve escaped from my daily routine. Oh, a pretty seashell. It’s amazing... it’s sparkling with rainbow colors . Why are they rainbow-colored? Let’s ask everyone next time. I wonder if they know? Hmm... By the way, seashells are the idols of the sea. Just seeing them shining like this on the sand! Alright, I won't lose to the seashells, so I'll do my best too...! I was glad to come to the sea today. It may be one step at a time, but I have to keep moving forward!
September 2019 Special Message (3rd Place)
Is it Halloween? Is everyone dressing up? I want to... dress up too, but I haven't prepared anything. Huh, come to think of it, wasn't there a package from an unknown sender? What on earth is this? It looks really suspicious. Hmm—it feels like a costume...? There is a letter inside; who sent it? "Please wear this costume and gather at Nijigasaki Academy on Halloween." Is this... a mysterious letter...? Usually, something like this would be Kasumi-chan . To think she went out of her way to send a costume... she's so sweet~ I wonder what kind of costume it is... Let's see, an orange doll...? Wow~ Is this a pumpkin doll? It's kind of soft and cute. Hehehe. I'll have to thank Kasumi when I meet her this time.
December 2019 Special Message (1st Place)
Wow! It's snow♪ As expected, snow always makes my heart flutter. Yeah. I thought so too. Look, with this much piled up, I think we could even make a snowman. Huh? Come to think of it, you didn't even wear gloves? I was hoping we could finally play in the snow together... ... No, no. My hands get really numb from the cold when I'm barehanded! Hmm, just wait a moment. Here, here are my gloves. We'll each only have one hand, but do you think it's better than nothing? I'm fine! But in exchange for lending you my gloves, I have one favor to ask. It is... I'd like you to help me make a little snowman... Is that okay? Is it okay? Thank you♪ I've always wanted to try making a snowman on a snowy day! I want to make a snowman with you again on the next snowy day. And next time, make sure we both have our gloves ready♪