
name        : Kanata Konoe
kanji       : 近江 彼方
color       : #a664a0
mbti        : INTP(128), ISFJ(40)

(introduction)
Good morning, everyone~ Ya... It's Kanata~.
Hehe, Kanata is overflowing with determination today to an unprecedented degree... I'm
going to take first place in school idol activities and get praised by Haruka, my younger sister whom I really love...
And I'm going to be respected by her...
So I've carefully thought out my self-introduction phrase... If I read that...
there's no doubt... Kanata will win... ... ... ... ... zzz
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... *Gasp*.
I, I didn't sleep... But I guess I should move on to something else...
I'm going to show you Kanata's greatest charm... my sleeping face to my heart's content...
So please cheer for me... ... ... ... ... zzz

(nijichizu)
Always looking sleepy, she knows how to get others to spoil her. She has several napping spots on Nijigasaki's campus. Good at cooking. All the members of the School Idol Club love everything that she makes.

(idol.st)
background:
Kanata is known as the group's 'sleeping beauty', Kanata has the uncanny ability to somehow calm anybody in her presence. She formerly attended Shinonome Academy and has a younger sister named Haruka. Along with Shizuku Osaka and Emma Verde, Kanata works with the Love Live! School idol festival app. Kanata attends Nijigasaki on a scholarship, so she studies very hard every day, and works part-time at a grocery store. This contributes to her sleep deprivation.

personality:
Kanata is often described as a nemuidere, a person often seen as being very sleepy and frequently takes naps during the day. She is very easygoing and prone to napping in the laps of others, although in the Nijiyon 4-koma series she seems to like Emma's lap the most. She also carries a pillow around with her at school. At times, she will appear to be sleeping but is actually awake and listening to what's going on around her. She usually refers to herself in third person when speaking, addressing herself as 'Kanata-chan'. Despite seeming always tired, Kanata is motivated as a school idol by her younger sister and others' praise. She often mentions her dream of being able to take a nap with the audience during a performance. Kanata loves being doted on, but is also very sisterly and capable of looking after others. She loves being a big sister, and tends to look after the other idols in various, little ways. Kanata can be very diligent in matters that are important to her. Her grades are good despite her sleepiness.

(wikipedia)

A third year who always looks sleepy, lazy and unmotivated, she belongs to the life design course. Kanata refers to herself as 'Kanata-chan.' She often looks sleepy because she studies hard to keep her scholarship. One of the original five school idol club members, she stopped coming to the club because she had to repair her exam scores; she agrees to return as Ayumu promised her that Shizuku and Ai would help her with her studies. She is one of the original N-rarity girls introduced in School Idol Festival; she is originally a Shinonome Institute student. She became a school idol to get motivation from her younger sister Haruka Konoe, also a school idol. In the anime, she is a selfless older sister who supports her Haruka and does house chores, though this results in a poor sleep schedule. She is also a good listener and counselor, helping Yu and Ayumu overcoming their issue of leaving each other to follow their dreams. Kanata is described as a 'spoiled older sister-type school idol' (甘えん坊お姉さん系スクールアイドル, amaenbō oneesan-kei sukūru aidoru).

(Official Comment)

November 2017 Ranking Comment (3rd Place)
Thank you, everyone!
You finally found Sleeping Princess Kanata...
I've waited so long~ I was worried that a prince charming to wake me up would never appear again~.
Now that I've made it to 3rd place, I thought even the always-sleepy-looking Kanata should show some determination and be sharp... but
everyone clearly loves the unpretentious, just Kanata as she is~.
In that sense, please continue to enjoy Kanata's sleeping face to your heart's content. Snoring softly~...
December 2017 Ranking Comment (3rd Place)
Kanata, you made it into 3rd place~! You did it~! I'm
so proud of you, Kanata!
Still, I feel like I want to aim even higher~. For some reason, I can't fall asleep tonight. Is this feeling of frustration...? In that sense, maybe I've grown~.
It's all thanks to everyone. Thank you~ If we have a ranking next time, I hope you'll help me climb even one more floor... I hope you'll pull Kanata up~.
Then, Kanata, I'll give it my all even if it means giving up my naps, so please look forward to it then.
July 2019 Special Message (2nd Place)
A festival... it feels like it's been a while. Since I'm here, maybe I should try something. Ah, shaved ice! It's hot today, so I'm craving something cold. Mmm. Choosing shaved ice was a good idea, but there's so much syrup... Just counting how many kinds there are makes me sleepy... *Yawn*. Since there are this many, it would be a shame to just put on one kind. Alright! Let's go with rainbow colors. Let's see, strawberry, orange, lemon, melon, Blue Hawaii, grape... Hehehe. It turned out so beautifully that it feels a shame to eat it. But if I don't eat it, it'll just melt. My tongue turns red if I eat strawberry, but I wonder what color it will turn with rainbow colors... I'll go back and show it to Haruka-chan and get praised♪ Will she say, "Excellent!"?
August 2019 Special Message (2nd Place)
Haruka-chan, I was really looking forward to the fireworks festival, so it’s such a shame you can’t come. Wait, Haruka-chan, Kanata will take some pretty photos of the fireworks and show them to you... Even so, the crowds are huge. Getting to the venue is a struggle... Even if I manage to take nice pictures of the fireworks, it looks like it’ll be tough with all the buildings around~ Still, if I can see Haruka-chan’s happy face, Kanata-chan will do her best. ......Ah! I was just wandering around, and the fireworks started going up... What should I do... At this rate, Kanata-chan has no choice but to find her best spot. Would this area be okay? Let's make this Kanata-chan’s best spot starting today~ Wait for me, Haruka-chan, I’ll show you some really pretty photos...!
September 2019 Special Message (1st Place)
You've been waiting, haven't you? It's Kanata-chan. Actually, I sat down on the train and overslept, so sorry for being late. Still, since I wanted to go out with you, Kanata-chan, you did a great job waking up. Thanks for waiting for me~ How about this? Isn't Kanata-chan's outfit cute? Hehehe. Haruka-chan and I picked this one together. It's a princess costume inspired by Sleeping Beauty~ You... are kind of creative. What? Of course since it's Halloween? Come to think of it, that is true. It feels strange because it's somehow different from usual. Ah, look over there! What is that, a zombie...? The whole street is somehow excited, which is fun~ Come to think of it, Kanata-chan is Sleeping Beauty right now, and if you think about it calmly, maybe it's a title that makes you want to sleep anywhere. I'd say it's actually natural. Or rather, obvious. Of course. Come over here and sleep with me~. If you don't take a nap with me, I'll play a prank on you~ Trick or Treat! ......Eh? Does it mean something different? Hehehe. If you really fall asleep, will you wake me up like Sleeping Beauty...?

(reddit opinion)

A: 
Poor Kanata, man. She's only about 18 but she always looks like she's aged 50 years. If anyone in the group could qualify as the Nijigasaki grandmother it's her lol, I don't think we've ever seen her not looking tired.

Initially I didn't like Kanata to be honest, because I felt her relationship with Haruka was very unrealistic, and a little weird. (Really, the only LL sibling relationship I see as realistic is Chika and the Takamis, but that's neither here nor there.) But after some thought-- and a long discussion with an ardent Kanata fan-- my opinion has raised, and I think I was too harsh on her.

I think Kanata's over-treatment of Haruka is to keep her from the path she's brought herself on, working part-time and studying late to try and help her family out of their rut. It infuriates me a little when people call Kanata lazy or a slacker, I think she's by far the hardest-working member in the group. She takes on too much responsibility though, and I like how Haruka calls her out for it-- I just wish she would have grown from it. It would have been nice to see Kanata sleeping less from that episode on.

Kanata's also got a great personality. Her story with Haruka evidences just how caring she is, and she's got a sly sense of dry humour that appears rarely but is hilarious every time. She's my favourite of the "loves to tease Kasumi" club lol, I love their interactions.

I do think she qualifies as a bit of a "bachelorette" in the Nijigaku club too lol. Any time I see the girls in their pairings they either slot her in with Karin and Emma, leave her to her own, or awkwardly pair her up with the other "bachelorette" Setsuna. I would love to see Kanata interact more with Mia sometime, as they have a similar tendency to overwork and not sleep, and I think Mia could really appreciate the return of an older sister in her life.

B: Kanata is a neat character, though I feel like Nijigaski's structure (in the anime) didn't really explore her to the fullest potential, which is more of an issue with the Nijigasaki anime than with any of the characters.

With Kanata specifically you actually had a very compelling issue for her to face and I did really like how they revealed it.

Like early on Kanata simply seems like a quirky character who is all about sleep, like "haha cute sleepy girl" and all that. Then that actually turns more serious when you learn that she actually is genuinely exhausted because she is overworking herself and her randomly falling asleep is not some funny quirk but a sympton of self-destructive behavior.

She works hard for school, works a job everyday, does a ton at home, supports her sister and her dreams and then at the cost of her own sleep tries to also pursue her own passion.

For many people trying to fit everything into the 24 hours they have each day is a genuine challenge and exhaustion and burnout can result from this.

I know that Love Live isn't (necessarily) the type of show to really tackle something like that, but I would've loved it if the anime explored that a bit more.

Same with other characters and their shown or hinted at issues.

But like I said, this is more of an issue with Nijigasaki itself, since the episodes are more slice-of-life and formulaic than in the other entries. They introduce a problem, then quickly resolve it with a song by the end.

C: As someone who got into Nijigasaki from the music and didn’t know anything about the characters until I watched the anime along with a friend I dragged into it as well, and our initial opinions of Kanata was the same as yours, we weren’t really interested in her at all, and he commented something like her being the trope of lazy/sleepy character (sorry OP, this was our initial reaction), but man when we saw her episode and were shoved the truth of her working part time while studying and taking care of Haruka at home really felt like a bucket of cold water and it totally changed our perspective about her, and I myself felt related to her sense of responsibility and workaholic attitude, it really does weight in the long run and I totally empathise with her in that regard, and I went from “she probably overstayed at night again, let her sleep”, to “she surely worked hard again” whenever she fell asleep in the anime after her episode, although I do wish they developed a bit more the part of her changing her attitude to improve her health honestly.

Another thing I like a lot about her is how caring she is, not only to her sisters but to the Nijigasaki club in general, while Karin might be the wiser older sister giving good advice, she’s the caring older sister looking after the girls, and definitely enjoyed seeing the episode of the summer camp where she made the inedible stew Setsuna cooked (this stewshine didn’t go that well apparently) into an enjoyable meal, or how in S2 she brought Karin back to reality when she was swelling about the future, helped both Ayumu and Yuu through their dilemmas and not to forget how she elaborated her plan to cheer everyone participating in Love Live with the cheering audience.

Overall she’s a character I respect a lot, and I definitely enjoyed watching her development.

As for my favourite song, while Butterfly was really emotional and I love it, Silent Blaze was my first song I liked about her and I love the rhythm of it, cause it also fits my music tastes, so I’ll have to pick the latter.

D: I initially didn't care too much for her, and actually didn't recognize that she was from SIF in the beginning (there was a couple years in between I stopped playing SIF and SIFAS starting up). Sleeps so much that makes us worry if she had some disease or something, but it just turns out that she's studying and working hard on her off times, since she comes from a poor family.

I do find her doting on Haruka to be funny, especially the anime episode where Haruka visits the school, and the SIFAS chapter where she goes to see Haruka performs (one of the rare gems of SIFAS season 2). However, while it made sense that she became a school idol because of Haruka in SIF, I can't remember if they ever explained why she kept being as one when she transferred to SIFAS (the pre-Anata-chan discovering the club period). You would think she would stop being one when she's not in the same school as Haruka since the initial purpose of her being one was to help Haruka...

E: Kanata is the embodiment of Sisterly Love; she proves that she doesn't need a canon ship to be relevant or exist in LoveLive! She takes what we love about Nozomi, Dia & Mari & became the sleepy amalgamation that we love to this day: a great cook, a jokester, a maternal person with great advice & the biggest fan of her little sister. The little that we know about the Konoe sisters paints a broader picture than most characters in the NijiGaku series.

(personality-database.com opinion)

A - INTP: I was confused with INTP at first, but after reading her bond episodes it made sense. About ISFP, i don't really see Se-Ni? The way she looks at things doesn't seem very concrete and she seems much less aware of her surroundings. She also doesn't show Ni and it wouldn't fit as her tertiary function. Fi would also be off, considering that her music "My Own Fairy-Tale" is about how people tend to see her as lazy and not recognize her, while she sleeps because she actually works too much. When people call her out for it, she just goes along with the flow, showing she doesn't really has a good view at herself or her own feelings. She thinks being an idol is a "selfish" wish because she isn't used to engage with things that are for herself, seeming more like a Fe user. Then i considered ISFJ, the way she takes care of her sister seems very Fe-ish and Si would make sense, but then comparing her to Ayumu and Emma, it isn't really accurate nor they look alike even the slightest. On her bond episode 8, Haruka refuses to get the lunch Kanata made for her and then Kanata's struggles begins: Even if it was for such a simple reason as Haruka wanting to make things easier for Kanata, she struggled to judge the info in a way she could understand Haruka's feelings which could fit inferior Fe (If Fe was higher in her stack, it would've been more natural for her to understand Haruka). She also kept considering various possibilities when trying to figure out why Haruka didn't get the lunch (Ne) while trying to make logical sense of it (Ti). I believe she doesn't come at first as an usual INTP due to her enneagram, since 9's aren't really focused on theory or their internal world (like eg 5 INTPs usually are), and due to her very uncommon tritype for an INTP which is most likely 9w1 2w1 6w7.




