
name        : Karin Asaka
kanji       : 朝香 果林
color       : #485ec6
mbti        : ENFJ(65), ESTP(73), INFJ(13)

(introduction)
Yep~! I'm Asaka Karin. Nice to meet you♪
By the way, what kind of school idol do you like? What kind of live performance do you want to see?
An energetic live? Or a lovely live? Or perhaps a cool and awesome one?
That's fine, but what I want to show you is… …
a super stimulating live performance that only I can do.
What kind of stimulating, you ask?
You can tell just by looking at me, right? Ufufu.
Using this figure I can confidently show off, I'm going to get everyone excited with a sexy, passionate, dreamlike live performance♪ You
definitely won't regret it, so please cheer for me with all your might.
I'll be waiting for everyone's passionate support. Ufufu♪

(nijichizu)
Not only a school idol, but also a model with an incredible physique, and a third-year student. She has a mature, sexy charm, but in reality is an extremely bad loser.

(idol.st)
background:
Karin wanted to become a school idol to boost her self-confidence. Along with Kasumi Nakasu and Setsuna Yuki, she works with Dengeki Online. In the Nijigasaki dorms, she shares a room with Emma Verde.

personality:
Karin is very mature and gives off a rather seductive vibe. She uses her adult-like looks to her advantage, such as when she tries to tease her underclassmen. She also teaches others how to be sexy and cool like her. However, these lessons sometimes backfire when people begin to show her significant attention or respond in a pure manner, as Karin will become embarrassed. Despite her teasing attitude, she is rather innocent and has a somewhat naive side to her personality. In the anime, however, her personality is different, being noticeably more reserved and shy. She states she doesn't like being around many people, and used to be a little bit aloof at the beginning of the first season, but nevertheless is genuinely kind and friendly. She is shown to be rather self-conscious about her weaknesses and initially being a loner, and can be naive and clumsy. Sometimes, Karin is a little bit more childish and nervous than usual, which she dislikes, but she manages to keep up her cool demeanor most of the time. While she is quite confident and likes to compete, she's also a genuinely supportive and empathetic person, as shown when she interacts with Ai's friend Misato and when she worries about her. Because of her modeling activities taking up most of her time, her grades are below average and she has difficulties waking up in the morning. She is helped at studying by Mia later on, while Shizuku helps Kasumi.

(wikipedia)
Karin is a third year student who aims to become a model (already making shootings for a magazine) and has confidence with her body; she belongs to the life design course. She has a passionate and mature personality, yet she also somewhat of a pure side, and can be quite clumsy. In the game, she is more outgoing and likes to tease, and is aware of her good looks, while in the anime she is more introverted and a little aloof at first; however, she is shown to be genuinely kind and caring after her personal confidence issues are solved. She is good at coordinating clothes. She is described as a 'sexy older sister type school idol' (セクシーお姉さん系スクールアイドル, sekushi onee-san-kei sukūru aidoru). Karin is regarded as '2018 MVP' for ranking first-place for three consecutive months; taking only 2nd and 3rd in the other monthly polls.

(Official Comment)

October 2017 Ranking Comment (1st Place)
Huh? Me, #1? I am happy, but... how did this happen so suddenly?
I intend to be confident in my own way, but my strengths are a bit different from those of a school idol...
Look, I'm not exactly sparkling and adorable enough to be instantly recognizable, am I? So I was a little flustered.
Still... I suppose so. It means everyone has finally realized my charm, right?
Hehe, that means you can't leave me anymore, can you? Not that I intend to let you go, though.
I will continue to charm everyone, so be prepared♪
November 2017 Ranking Comment (2nd Place)
Oh my, my ranking dropped by a spot. After all, I was so confident before... I'm a little embarrassed.
But this is reality. I have to accept the results.
Still, Setsuna is amazing. I sincerely admire her attitude and passion for being a school idol... though I shouldn't just be admiring her. I have to pour my passion into winning just like Setsuna.
Next time, I will definitely be the envy of everyone, so please keep an eye on me.
December 2017 Ranking Comments (1st Place)
It’s an honor to return to number one in the last month of the year!
It’s all thanks to everyone’s support. Thank you!
At first, I didn’t know what to do about this ranking, so I tried all sorts of things, but the results weren’t good.
So, I changed my attitude, steeled myself, and expressed exactly what I wanted to do and say most, staying true to myself, and that’s how this result came about.
The things I wanted to convey are constantly being shared with everyone who supports me.
I plan to continue moving forward true to myself. Please keep following me!
January 2019 Special Message (3rd Place)
It's warm. When I wear this scarf with you like this♡ I love winter. Being able to be this close to you and talk this close... isn't that what makes your heart flutter? Huh, me? It's obvious I'll be fine. You're the one whose face is red. Hehe, if we keep walking this leisurely, it'll get dark. If it gets dark, I won't be able to see your cute face, so let's hurry back. Ah, if you move suddenly, the scarf I wrapped up for so long will come undone...... Did your heart flutter again?
February 2019 Special Message (3rd Place)
It’s gotten dark. Now that you’re leaving... I’d like to say something like that♡
I had a really great time today, too. There’s a place I’d like to go one last time; is that okay? This is the place I wanted to take you.
Isn’t it pretty? It’s a big tree with cherry blossoms, and it’s lit up. You’ll stop by on your way back, and looking at the cherry blossoms at night like this reminds you of something, doesn’t it? The charm when the sun shines, the charm when it gets dark—being able to captivate people at any time. That I want to be that kind of person.
But... listen, look at me now, not the night cherry blossoms. Because right now, I’m smiling thanks to you...
March 2019 Special Message (3rd Place)
Eh... what happened? I didn't hear. That's so sudden. You should have told me sooner. I... you... more than you think. Yeah. It doesn't really matter. Well, it can't be helped anyway. It's already decided. To think you're going on your first overseas trip! Seriously, you said the first one would be with me. And Paris ? I'm so jealous. For souvenirs, pretty clothes and things you can buy at the Louvre... Eh, a lie? ...That happened on April Fool's Day, remember? I'm planning to get revenge for that. So... why...♡ How about we just stay together all the time this holiday? Stay with me until you say, "[I can't think of anyone but you]." Ufufu. I'm already excited about where we're going♡
April 2019 Special Message (3rd Place)
I feel like something is about to happen in the gym storage room. Like, getting trapped just the two of us and the atmosphere turning into something good a
♡ Hehe, just kidding. Let's hurry up and get what I was asked to get. It seems to be quite far inside. [Click] Huh? Didn't you hear a sound just now? Was it just my imagination? Eh, the door... I think it's closed... The wind was quite strong today, so maybe that's why. I, I'm fine. How about you? That's a bit of a hassle though... How should I ask for help? Ah, should I try knocking on the door to call out? Come on, you come over here. Alright. Then, let's say [One, two] and [Is anyone there?]. Are you ready? One, two. [Is anyone there!] Hmm, I guess there's no one nearby. Well, the sports club members will probably come after school, so I guess I'll just wait patiently. Ufufu. For some reason, being just the two of us in the storage room is so quiet that it feels like we're the only two people in the world. I wouldn't mind if the door just stayed like this and didn't open... ♡
May 2019 Special Message (2nd Place)
Heh. Cute raincoats are coming out these days, too. As for me, the raincoat I used to wear[12] I like that too, but… … when I was little, I used to often walk near flowers wearing a raincoat. It’s cute when flower petals stick to the raincoat. Hehehe. I miss it for some reason. On rainy days, my eyes are drawn to big puddles, cute umbrellas, and small things. I will do my best as a school idol in the future, but...... I hope to be able to bring small happiness through my performances, and I hope I don't lose that.
June 2019 Special Message (3rd Place)
What should I do about my swimsuit this year? Black? No, blue...? Maybe go all out with red... I've been racking my brain in my room, but nothing comes to mind. Maybe I should go see the ocean for a change of pace. Well, I am here at the sea, but since it's night, it's a little scary... Still, maybe because I saw something scary, I'm realizing something. It's ambiguous where the ocean ends and the sandbar begins. That precariousness is charming, too. There's an atmosphere that makes you feel like you'll be swallowed by the sea if you lose your mind. But when you look up, a stage of the night sky unfolds... Ah, maybe it would be good to incorporate this feeling into a swimsuit. The black of the sea and the white of the night sky... Hmm, doesn't it look good? The combination of the mystery of the night sea and the sparkle of the night sky . Ufufu. With this, everyone might not be able to take their eyes off me. Shall I call everyone to the sea right away?♡ I'm looking forward to seeing their reaction♪
July 2019 Special Message (3rd Place)
There are so many kids in yukata, I can feel the festival atmosphere throughout the whole street~. ......Even so, where could everyone be? I can't see them at all. Hmm... this is troublesome. It's almost time for our appointment, so everyone should be gathered by now. ーーーーBesides, where am I even? Still, if I just head back to where there are a lot of people, it should be fine.....right. ーーーーーーーーHuh? A cute cat. It looks... somewhat like Ai ? Like the eye color. ......Okay, it's no use worrying, so since it's all or nothing, I'll just follow the cat that looks like Ai. Still, it walks so skillfully on this thin wall~. I can't lose sight of it. It suddenly runs off with incredible speed! .......Haa.......Haa...... It's too much for a human to chase...... Huh? That's the members over there, right? Ufufu. Maybe I ended up getting help somehow. Thanks, little cat I've never seen before♪
August 2019 Special Message (3rd Place)
I didn't find anything worth seeing today. ......Huh? 'Fireworks display today!' I guess I should go see it for the first time in a while....... As expected, fireworks displays are hugely popular regardless of generation. If I wander around here, I feel like I won't be able to get back....... Indeed, I don't have the courage to brave that crowd, so would it be okay if there were fewer people? — —Yeah, if it's near this bridge, I can get a close enough view, so it's nice. Wow~ Start! The sound was unexpectedly loud when you're close, so I was a little startled. But......it really is beautiful. Flowers are blooming in the night sky. The person who named things like fireworks might be quite a romantic. .......I feel a bit overwhelmed by the atmosphere of the fireworks, but I guess I should head back soon. It was a coincidence, but I saw something truly beautiful, and I can't be outdone. A stage as spectacular as the fireworks! ......Was my goal too high? Ufufu♡
October 2019 Special Message (3rd Place)
—This is troublesome. No matter how much I think about it, the calorie count doesn't add up. Then, should I cut back on this... no, maybe I should go over here? Hmm~ This is troublesome~ Why are there so many delicious things in autumn...... But it probably won't make much difference even if I eat it all. If I exercise later, it will definitely be fine. Time spent worrying is a waste, so I should eat now! Come on, future me! Mmm–♡ This steamed mushroom rice is exquisite. The saury is also the best with its oil rising to the surface. And lastly, chestnuts. When it comes to autumn, dessert is decided by Mont Blanc. Eh, what is this marron cream!? I wonder if it might be a little tasty... ––––Hehehe, I ate it all. I feel an indescribable sense of guilt. Well then, I’ve fully enjoyed the autumn of appetite, and if I don’t switch to the autumn of sports starting tomorrow, I’m going to be in big trouble......

(reddit opinion)

A: I really like the gap in her character. She's your mature/sexy big sister who is good and confident at what she's doing, cares for her juniors, and offers the right advice at the right time. At the other hand, she's your silly big sister that often gets lost, has a messy room, and actually an introvert.

Because she's new at being a school idol, and that she's actually an introvert, she isn't as frank as Setsuna or Kasumi or Emma about their love of being a school idol - but when that does come out, the viewers are in for a treat. Even that part was decently written in the disastrous SIFAS season 2 story.

B: I love Karin's gap moe. In the front she is appears to be a hot, sexy and matured onee-san but on the other hand she is a bit clumsy and directionally challenged like a small child.

She always try to hide her weaknesses due to her image but that's normal as a person. We want to show our good and best side after all. I personally think that Wish best reflect this which she asks to accept everything from her while Vivid World shows that there's more than the Karin you see.

I also like that both Karin and Miyutan has a bit of parallels and opposites. Miyutan still has some singing trauma due to being criticized in her early days which reminds me of Karin ran away before her performance due to expectation and showing her weakness. Despite that, both of them still managed to overcome it and give the best performance that they could give to the audiences.

C: Karin wastes no time in establishing herself within the Nijigasaki storyline. But despite knowing her from the first couple of episodes (and her being a large part of Emma’s episode), it takes her quite a while to become a real idol (her episode is the last of the 9 girls if I recall correctly).

Unlike some of the outwardly confident girls like Setsuna and Lanzhu, Karin’s confidence and strength is a subtler kind. She knows what she wants to do and she does it (or maybe gets lost along the way). She’s just as passionate and intense as many of the most energetic girls, but she doesn’t show it very much, or maybe just in a different way. The DiverDiva group shows how Karin can be quite competitive, and push people (namely Ai) to do better. Not out of malice or hostility, but for a friendly rivalry, and because she loves it!

TLDR: Hehe funny girl gets lost easily. EmmaKarin S-tier ship. One word description: Beauty

D: In terms of when I watched the show, I thought Karin kinda blended into the background? Like I dunno, I somehow felt her focus was pretty low, even though she pretty much got two episodes with Emma's and her own. Nijiyon gave her a bit more background with the islander stuff (and I think it was in SIFAS too?), but I try to stick to the show here, and from the show alone she felt a little empty to me.

So I tend to rank Karin lower in comparison to the rest of Nijigaku, but I still like her a lot! She has a great look and I love how her mature personality gets undercut in hilarious ways-- you think, "oh she's the smartest one in the group" and then she starts crying for Emamma lol. It happens a bit too much at times I think, I'd like the see her mature side more to balance things, but I still like the back-and-forth.

I love her relationship with Emma too for this reason. It's like Emma is too pure-hearted to be intimidated by her haha, I love how Karin's flirting-intimidation falls flat only on her. Funnier when you realize their first interaction was Emma asking for directions lol, like you just know Karin got them both lost. Her relationship with Ai is also interesting: on first watch I felt it was way too forced, but later I came around to it, especially with how Karin integrates with Misato. I also get the feeling Ai is a little intimidated of her, since AFAIK she's the only girl she doesn't nickname, and I like how that undercuts Ai too.

Otherwise Karin tends to stick to herself, which I still think is fine-- nothing wrong with introverts, and Karin is solidly that. But it'd be great to see her make one or two new friends, just as a way to grow her more. I'd especially love to see her newfound membership in the Theatre Club. I think her and Shizuku would get along very well, with their mature personalities always being undercut with more (oft-undesired) silly behaviour. I imagine Shizuku could introduce her to actresses like Marilyn Monroe; I think Karin could see a lot of herself in her.

Of course, Karin's voice is amazing too, one of my favourites in Nijigaku. I love VIVID WORLD and Fire Bird, her singing just makes those songs.

E: One of my favourite characters of Nijigasaki, she really settled herself well within the group in the first episodes, at first I thought she was the kind of “badass” type of character, with how she found out about the identity of the mysterious idol in the school, and how confident she looked leaning in the wall with a smug face during the Dive MV, that really left a good impression on me.

And I love how she has two sides of a coin, for one part she is really smart, mature, and give really good counsel in times where others struggle, but then when alone she’s just like everyone, with their own flaws, with her being disorganised and getting lost easily, laughed at how Emma knew her so well to ask Rina to make a gps keychain for her in S2, and while at first it would seem like she doesn’t have much interest in the idol club, she really was giving a lot to help Emma and the others, and even when she joined, she put a lot of effort behind the scenes as seen in S1 when she met with Setsuna and Ayumu, with Vivid World being a solid demonstration of her efforts.

Season two was also great, with how she blended with Misato and helped Ai overcome her troubles, with the formation of DiverDiva and Eternal Light, one of my favourite songs from S2. I also felt touched about how much she cared about the group when in EP11 she was thinking near the bridge about the future of the group once the third years will graduate, and how Kanata brought her back to reality, that really hit me hard since I also tend to get lost thinking about mistakes I made in the past or doubts about an unknown future, that definitely was an important moment for me. Also interested about if we will get any content about her in the drama club, that could really show another interesting side of her.

(personality-database.com opinion)
A - ENFJ: Fe > Ti is clear imo. She always seeks external validation of her values, and that validation is what drives her decision/judgement process. Meeting the expectations of others and appealing to them based on their emotional reactions to stimuli is her leading method of operation, not a subjective set of logical principles obtained through the rationalization of her experiences and observations. She instills structure in the social sphere of the outer world, using empirical indicators of how to do that to set regulations that ensure social fairness/harmony and collective synergy of people. An example is when the group had to pick one member to perform and she kept poking holes in their ideas and tactics because they weren't fair or conducive to social balance/equilibrium for everyone involved. Another example is when she gave Ayumu advice on how to reach people through her introductory video; she used her knowledge of how people emotionally react to certain actions/behaviors to help Ayumu establish her persona in a way that hooks the audience and still feels authentic to them. That narrows her type down to FJ. Se is all about spatial awareness, which she severely lacks, and the external validation of experiences (using people and objects to outwardly portray one's own experiences in a way that causes those experiences to visibly manifest in the outer world, thereby proving their realness). I don't see that as much as the Fe. It is shown in how she focuses on aesthetics and the physical in her career and how she said one of her favorite things about being an idol is that it makes her feel alive, but those things still stem from Fe to some extent because the people's emotional reactions to her career are what make her feel alive and overall fuel her career. She focuses on aesthetics and the physical in her career partially to get those emotional reactions from people, as those are a source of validation to her. It gives her reassurance that she's doing the right thing, that her values/sense of what is "right" are proper because they're getting positive reactions out of people. Her use of Se is pretty simplistic and ultimately used to support her Fe. So she's an Fe-dom with Se in her stack. That means there's Ni and Ti too, by default. So by functions she is an ENFJ.

Now, as some reassurance and supporting evidence of ENFJ, let's look at some other theories. If you don't like the grid or its theories, feel free to skip this part and focus on the functions. ENFJs are affiliative rather than pragmatic; that means they'd rather do what's "right" than what works, and they're very willing to sacrifice their independence and individuality for the sake of the group. That suits her better than the opposite. Additionally, she has the In-Charge interaction style, which corresponds to ENFJ and ESTP, but not ISTP. Her instinct is to take control of social situations to make sure they run smoothly. She is also an EJ by letter dichotomies because she makes sense of the world through empirical indicators of worth; in her case, because she's an EFJ, her definition of making sense of the world is establishing a universal value system, and her empirical indicators of worth are the emotional reactions of others (which serve as external validation of the value system). By worth here, I mean value - and the assessment of value is how one forms values. The J dichotomy also shows in how she's constantly concerned with time management, following necessary routines, and focusing on getting things done more than just having fun and viewing variety as the spice of life. Finally, when under stress, she falls into her INFP shadow by walling herself off from others and reassessing her values through her own independent, intuitive analysis. Her normally convergent thinking becomes divergent thinking, but since she's bad at divergent thinking naturally, it just outwardly comes off as her being scattered. An example is how she was acting right before her solo performance. Her thought process was jumpy and her decisions were based on more personalized principles than usual. Normally she is focused on upholding responsibilities to others, but under stress, she started thinking in terms of upholding responsibilities to herself. That's called shadow mode. So by other theories, she is still an ENFJ.

Conclusion: ENFJ.

B - ESTP: Karin is an ESTP. If there was a second option it would be ENFJ, and that's because she loops a lot on Se-Fe. In the game during her bond episodes she starts to feel very exhausted and the reason why is because she is always trying to fit into other's expectations of her, playing the role of the mature big sister and taking care of the other idols which is very Fe. An example of that is when the girls are ordering food and Karin refuses to ask what she wanted because that would go against her image of mature, being Se-Fe due to her way of adapting herself focusing on concrete sensorial actions. So she is always being restrict about her own tastes to fit the social situations making her use of Fe really relevant to be an inferior function. Ti is still higher in her stack fitting as an aux function, as already pointed here she does value her own reasoning and logical analysis of the situations for it to be her inferior function and her use of Fe isn't exactly healthy which fits as overusing her tertiary function. Now taking the anime in count, on Emma's episode we can see a little more of Karin's character and her struggle is the same: she wanted to be a school idol but due to thinking it wasn't mature enough she was avoiding engaging on it. Enneagram 3 is pretty obvious as she really values her image of mature for others in order to feel worthy while still being very ambitious on her own and wing 2 due to being more people oriented.

C - ESTP: Hmmm....To me her Fe usage seems more than just tert. And I can't see her Se dom (ESTP in this case) or Ti dom (ISTP in this case) in anime at all. What I see from her is just her persona that she puts in order to make please other ppl (since people have expectations of her personality and she tries to keep them like that). Bushiroad has this pattern to give XNFJ people either the hiding their true selves trait or having a persona trait (Kaoru Seta, Bandori, hiding her true self + having a persona-ENFJ, Shizuku Osaka, LL, hiding her true self-INFJ, Nanami Hiromachi, Bandori, hiding her true self-INFJ). It's already confirmed from Emma's episode that she's trying to meet people's expectations from her, a thing that most Fe doms and Fe auxs do. I'm not sure if I should consider her an ENFJ or INFJ since she's extremely selective with the people she lets in her life but she's still helping them. ESTP, from my point of view, is apparently what people expect from her, shortly, her persona. I can see Ni in her since she: 1. Even if, obviously, from the environment she comes from school idols aren't appreciated, she still liked them but her persona stood in her way and 2. She's actually good at making plans for future. The fact that she didn't have to change them that much is other story. Her Se is either tert or inf in this case.
Guido Mista and Tomoe Udagawa (JJBA and Bandori) are good ESTP examples and I can't see a lot of the real Karin in them. But I can see her persona.
All Stars Karin is pretty conflicting to take into account since many people said that she and everyone else was done differently in the game from how they are in anime so that's why I'm strictly talking about her anime self
Plus, from her episode we know that she felt extremely guilty when everyone found out that she didn't listen to her own advice and what she said shows that she doesn't actually have the best opinion about herself
Also, a Se dom would actually be good or decent with google maps

D - INFJ: I find it hard to believe anyone who's watched the Niji anime could type ANIME Karin as an ExxP.

ANIME Karin is most likely an INFJ. INFJs can be described as socially smooth and subtle, with the ability to read and influence the vibe of a situation. They are often great guides and mentors, and I think Karin fits these descriptors to a T. She isn't boisterous, but her presence is "quietly forceful."
In contrast with types that are more problem-solving - INFJs are more people-solving. And I think Karin demonstrates just that in the anime (e.g. with Ai and Emma). Fe, especially in the auxiliary position, assists people by impacting their feelings.

Ni-dom/Se-inferior:
Near the end of S2 where she was fretting over the future and direction of the club, Emma told her: "If you spend too much time worrying about the past or the future, you'll miss out on all the fun that we're having right now!" - which is not the most common issue for people that exercise their Se often (e.g. ESxP, ISxP, ENxJ).

So yes, I believe ANIME Karin is an INFJ. Really the "exact opposite" of how people have typed her in the game. I don't pay attention to the game story myself, so I have no personal opinion on that.



