
name        : Kasumi Nakasu
kanji       : 中須かすみ
color       : #e7d600
mbti        : ESFP(121), ENTJ(34), ESTP(1)

(introduction)
Hi~! It's everyone's idol, Kasumi~!
I'm working hard on dancing and singing every day with the goal of becoming Japan's best school idol!
And I'm striving to become even cuter!
Also, preparations for the mysterious letter to send to my rival and the bread to secretly slip into their shoes are going smoothly… Ah, this is a secret!
Eh, ahem! Anyway, everyone, please cheer for Kasumi!

(nijichizu)
Loves cute things and admires school idols far more than the average person. A very mischievous girl, she often tries playing tricks on the other members, but those tricks seem not to have any effect on them.

(idol.st)
background:
Kasumi had always dreamed of becoming an idol. Upon entering Nijigasaki, Kasumi would go on to join the School Idol Club as its most passionate member. But when the club fell into disarray, Kasumi's dreams never took off, and she would soon begin to doubt herself. Her sole presence in the club room would serve as a reminder that the School Idol Club has seen better days. Nevertheless, Kasumi still believes in the club and is determined to keep the dream alive. She would continue to strive to become a school idol and hopes to once again participate in club activities, especially with a senpai she adores. Along with Karin Asaka and Setsuna Yuki, she works with Dengeki Online. In the anime, after Setsuna Yuki disbands the School Idol Club, Kasumi declares herself president, as the sole member remaining. In Cutest Girl, Kasumi approaches Ayumu Uehara and Yu Takasaki after overhearing them talk about school idols and convinces them to join her. She remains the president continuously throughout the club's existence, occupying a genuine leadership role, even when, arguably more capable, other people join the club.

personality:
Although slightly self-centered and mischievous, Kasumi is a kind, friendly and lively girl who loves all things cute, and her love for idols is unrivaled in strength and inspiration. Kasumi wants to be number one in any competition she's in, and often resorts to cheating or even sabotage to achieve that goal. As a consequence, she is a sore loser whenever she achieves anything other than first place. In general, Kasumi spends a lot of her time scheming or thinking up new ways to ensure her own victory; however, these plans often fail or aren't as devious as she thinks. However, even with her scheming streak, Kasumi has the capacity to be considerate and kind to her fellow idols. For example, she tries to rile up the group when Ayumu is nervous before their live and exchanges genuine Christmas gifts with the Dengeki Online group. She hates the nickname Kasukasu (かすかす) which roughly translates to 'just barely' or 'not quite', and gets in a bad mood when she is referred to with it. In All Stars, it is revealed that some bullies in her past used to call her this, hence her disdain for the nickname.

(wikipedia)
Kasumi is a first year who refers to herself as 'Kasumin.' Due to her full name, she is often called 'Kasukasu' as a joke, which she hates (as it means 'dried out' in Japanese). She belongs to the general course. She is the first person that the protagonist encounters at the school idol club, where she was striving to keep the club alive. She is distinguishable by her beige-colored semi-short hair and a star-shaped hairpin. She wanted to become a school idol more than anyone and sometimes tries to be mischievous towards her rival; however, she is a good-hearted and friendly young girl despite her claiming to be mean. She also tends to send hate mails to her rivals, although sometimes it naturally becomes normal fanmail. Kasumi refers to the protagonist as 'Senpai.' Kasumi is described as a 'black-hearted type school idol' (腹黒系スクールアイドル, haraguro-kei sukūru aidoru)."


(personality-database.com opinion)
A - ESFP: [OUTDATED!! i updated my vote and may write a new comment for her in the future but feel free to read on] she is not an ENTP. her character page clearly gives out that: "Kasumi wants to be number one in any competition she's in, and often resorts to cheating or even sabotage to achieve that goal. As a consequence, she is a sore loser whenever she achieves anything other than first place. She hates the nickname Kasukasu (かすかす) which roughly translates to "just barely" or "not quite", and gets in a bad mood when referred to with it. Kasumi spends a lot of her time scheming or thinking up new ways to ensure her own victory" which strikes me as ENTJ, since they usually don't deal well with incompetence. also, where's Ne?

B: [outdated, but feel free to read on. I was very new to typology when I wrote this argument, hehe]

I've been giving it a lot of thought, and while I still see a possibility for ESFP, I really think Kasumi is an ENFP. Hear me out.

"People with Se as their dominant function know what is going on around them at all times. They can sense any change in physical movement in the room."

Kasumi has a tendency to be absent-minded, often getting lost in her own inner world. In episode 2, she was so bothered with the realization that what she's doing to Ayumu is essentially the same as what Setsuna did to her, that she didn't notice Yuu was already beside her and got really surprised. She also didn't notice when Nana got back in the student council room while she was sneaking in to steal the club's nameplate. In episode 8, when Haruka visited the club, Kasumi was so self-absorbed with her introduction about how cute she is that she didn't notice how the whole club already left her behind. An Se dom cannot be out of touch with their surroundings that often.

"People with a dominant Ne function tend to be very articulate speakers who can speak quickly, fluidly and with ease. When speaking, ideas come easily to them and they rapidly turn those into words, whole sentences and complete stories."

Kasumi is full of clever ideas, and she often uses her Ne to concoct her little devious plans (hiding behind a bush playing tag, scaring their senpais in ep 10). She never runs out of solutions for any problem (comforting Shizuku in ep 8, the Kasumi box in ep 11), and takes immediate action to solve them. Her words often come off effortlessly charming, and she can endlessly gush about the things she loves (i.e. herself) without stuttering. When the club was picking a venue for the School Idol Festival, Kasumi was the one who was the most meticulous about the small details of the venue, suggesting some use of Si. On the other hand, we have Ai, an ESFP, who was just having fun in the moment and not concerning herself with anything else.

"But she's spontaneous, acts quickly, and is very committed to her goal, so that has to be Se!"

Not necessarily. For instance, let's take a look at Yazawa Nico, another ENxP with very low Se. Nico doesn't mind doing multiple jobs, taking care of all her siblings, or doing everything in her power to maintain the image of an ideal idol (exercise regimen, strict diet, and most especially her tedious skincare routine), because she's a type 3 and very goal-driven. Kasumi is very much the same, her desire to show everyone her cuteness and bring joy to her fans is very strong and pushes her to do whatever it takes to meet that goal.

Welp, this is actually my first time making an argument on this site, so the way I presented my points and ideas might seem quite amateurish. I do hope someone can use my ideas as a framework to make stronger ENFP arguments though! 

C: I really like your argument and it was really interesting to read, quite surprising for a first comment! But i think ESFP would fit Kasumi better. While being absent-minded is a common characteristic of intuitive types, it's not an exclusive one. At least on some moments during their lifes independent of cognitive functions people will get distracted and lost in thoughts, so even with dominant Se it's likely to happen (for example when engaging with Fi or Ti, who are very introverted functions). So between Ne-Si and Se-Ni, i think the later would fit Kasumi better. The difference is that the Ne-Si axis will focus on the possibilities presented on the objects, they will perceive reality through "what could it be" without limiting themselves to one thing, while the Se-Ni axis will focus on grasping something specific about the object (Se will get a concrete info from it, while Ni will seek for a deeper meaning from it) and Kasumi's focus is on understanding the object as it is rather than wondering about what it could be. For example on episode 8 when she is the one who notices how Shizuku was feeling, to get this information her focus was on the sensorial info Shizuku presented: On the first minutes of the episode she is the one who notices Shizuku changing her facial expression, showing she is pretty aware of an immediate change on the enviroment ("They can sense any change in physical movement in the room"). When she talks about it with Rina it's possible to see the difference between Se and Ne: While Kasumi says "Shizuku is sad." Rina answers "Shizuku is sad? I thought she maybe was... or maybe not..." Showing that while Kasumi values getting a concrete conclusion from her observations, Rina prefers to wonder about what it could be. When they were hanging out and Shizuku looked at the Audrey poster and got sad, even if Kasumi was far away she easily noticed the change on Shizuku's mood and immediatelly went to talk with her. Later when Kasumi talks with Shizuku on the classroom, she easily notices Shizuku's eyes were swollen and that she was crying, again showing to be pretty aware of sensorial info. That's why i think that Kasumi's focus is on narrowing down her conclusions rather than expanding the possibilities, being part of the Se-Ni axis rather than Ne-Si.
About picking a venue for the SIF, while i agree that a Ni user tends to ignore the details, i think in that case it would indicate that her mind type is 6. This is one of the differences between Kasumi and Ai, Ai being a core 7 she is in fact more worried about having fun than what could go wrong, but if Kasumi has a mind type 6 that would make she thinks about what could go wrong when preparing the event. She shows some signs of having 6 as her mind type, for example her need of support from Yu or different than 7 who's part of the positive triad and tries to ignore their own problems, Kasumi shows to be "pessimistic" and self-doubting. As for thinking about the past and trying to improve that doesn't have correlation to cognitive functions, Si ins't about the past. I agree that Kasumi's need to successful and being commited to a goal has nothing to do with Ni or Se, but it's her enneagram 3. Yet, she shows many others signs of using Se-Ni.

D - ENFP: Ni is an introverted function. I get that Ni is one of the most distorted and misunderstood functions by the community, but Kasumi does not lead her perception introvertedly. She is rather using it to express her own subjective values. While Ni is focused on understanding, Ne is focused on initiation. What Kasumi does throughout her route in the game and the anime is to promote several strategies to lead her feelings to fruition. She is bringing her own preconceived judgments to reality through perception. And this can be seen on her insistence on keeping the School Idol Club alive. It's the determination of her feelings, not her perception, that leads her toward that active resistance. But that resistance is only expressed through Ne, because her feelings are too personal to be compromised or easily shared.

She is an intuitive, not a sensor, because the way she engages her own feelings with the world is through her initiation of enterprises or competition. She is not easily satisfied by her reality and the state of things, because she beholds ideals too highly to conform. She takes pride on being different and comparing herself to others. And she is creative and optimistic enough to see the opportunity when most have lost their hope.

E: i think kasumi showed good signs of both Ni and Se in episode 8- she picked up shizuku's gloominess rather easily which i believe is Ni (since Ni users tend to be good at 'reading the room' and picking up on subtle signs, and maybe even figuring out the meaning behind said signs). the way she first tried to cheer shizuku up was pretty Se in my eyes: she took her out (with rina) to hang out for a bit together, eating that cake and just hanging out, without really talking about shizuku's feelings. she has a good usage of Se, so when she saw that her friend was upset, she immediately resorted to doing external things, like taking her out, as a means to cheer her up.
i'm not taking a stance on the ENFP opposition for now, but where do people see Ne-Si? i too did momentarily think she was ENFP after the muteki-kyu believer MV was released, but it didn't really stick and didn't seem like the most probable type for her- i think i thought that just due to stereotypes lol. anyway, the anime has really solidified my opinion on her having Ni and Se, so if she does have higher Fi, she must be something other than ENFP in my opinion.
(and yet another sidenote - kasumi is really stubborn and value-driven, which can be both Fi and Te! or even them working together! she could be gripping whenever she shows those stubborness attacks! there are a lot of possibilities for this, so i suggest you take a look at the whole picture before saying she's ENFP merely because of her Fi)
to sum up: kasumi has a strong usage of both Ni and Se in my eyes.

(reddit opinion)

A: I think there's two kinds of people who love Kasumi: those who are Kasumi fans, and those who are Shizuku fans. I'm pretty firmly in the Shizuko camp, and let me say, I love Kasumin.

And it's funny, cause I feel I shouldn't? Kasumi doesn't really get development at all. Her S1 episode relegated her to comedy relief while developing Ayumu-Yu-Setsuna instead, the QU4RTZ episode hinted to a hurt past and then didn't do anything with it, and her Kasumin Wonder Tour episode put her back in comedy relief in favour of developing Lanzhu.

There's not much original with Kasumi too. Kasumi is, broadly speaking, just Nico with a coat of paint; maybe a bit nicer too. They even throw in a bit of Yohane with the "hating Kasukasu" shtick. But in both their cases they get development-- we see Nico's siblings, Yohane's bad luck-- while Kasumi never gets anything. She's a character with more questions than answers, and it never seems staff are bothered to answer them.

So, why do I like her? I dunno man, she's just silly. Her cute-girl behaviour is funny, she has a genuine kind caring streak, her mannerisms are endearing. I pre-emptively smile every time Kasumi shows up, she's a joy of a character. Kasumi was the first time the gremlin archetype worked for me, I liked her even before Shizuku's episode. Mind you Shizuku's episode definitely helped-- I loved seeing her "sober up" and go the extra mile for Shizuko, and I think it showed just how much of her cute-girl behaviour is an act.

And I really do think it's an act. I see a lot of hurt in Kasumi, especially with her disdain for Kasukasu and her constant belittlement from the likes of Mia and Ai. Her cute-girl act and constant demands to be respected as leader read to me as a cry for help, a wish for someone to come along and say something nice about her for once-- maybe because she struggles to say it to herself.

But bar Shizuku's hairclip and the occasional praise from Yu it never really happens. She's constantly the butt of every joke, never really respected, dare I say rarely even liked. I feel only Shizuku and Yu are really shown liking her. Maybe the others do too, but the show doesn't really demonstrate it.

My one wish for Nijigasaki-- the only criticism I can really hold to the show-- is to see this hurt in Kasumi explored. It's so interesting, but it's just never looked into.

B: 
I absolutely adore Kasumi, it's genuinely between her and Kotori as my favourite Love Live girl in the entire franchise. I like her insecurity about her own shortcomings, she genuinely feels outmatched by everyone else in the group (Apart from cuteness of course) in terms of abilities and yet she still tries her best. I love her sense of loyalty to the people she forms bonds with, be it the club, Shizuku or Yuu.

I also think she has alot of chemistry with the other members which let her bounce off with a defined dynamic between most of them. She has her more 'antagonistic' comical clashes with Karin or Mia, to her more playful interactions with Shizuku or Yuu, her interactions with Emma or Kanata compared to Setsuna and even Lanzhu. She can be a source of comedy when they need a fool or even play the straight man to the lunacy of the other members. She can completey sell emotional serious moments when given the chance and she's just a pretty versatile character.

As well, I was so happy she won the animated PV. She may not get the recognition in universe, but at least she gets it in ours. Her holding that flag up is still an awesome visual and I could gush about the PV all day. Muteki-kyuu Believer is an absolutely beautiful PV and such a banger song. To not have that song exist would just be a crime.

B: I find comparisons, assumptions, and expectations often don't do justice to the character. I think Kasumi is someone that simply likes cute things and likes being cute. I understand wanting more from that, but expecting her to be hurt from something might set one up for self-made disappointment. As for her childhood picture, I think it was just meant to be an embarrassing moment captured in time, like any commonly-held childhood albums would contain.

I re-watched compilation clips from HAYATO (S1 and S2) and I find Kasumi to be like a main character, or protagonist. If "You" and Yuu wasn't the MC, perhaps Kasumi would play more of active role than she already does. She could've stood her ground and gathered members herself and, optimistically, Kasumi would've ended up with similar results.

Sure, she doesn't have an emotional arc like Ayumu or Shizuku, but the writers could always have a different plan or interpretation of how things could go than what the audience want; since Anijigasaki was intended to have an original story, I think certain ideas (not characters) were placed in priority so as to have a cohesive story overall. Perhaps things could've been handled better, but I don't blame the writers, especially because of the amount of characters and concepts to go through. In my opinion, none of the characters were treated unfairly. It's just that a few concepts weren't able to be on-screen, most likely because of having the constraints of being a two-season 13-episode anime (but also because of having to be original and possibly because of SIFAS's serious-rivalry-plot backlash).

One of the comments from the "Kasumi - Underdeveloped" thread contains most of what I was going to say about Kasumi (or wanted to, but I wouldn't be able to put it into words), and I especially agree with the third paragraph. She doesn't put on an act to cover over her insecurities; instead, she lacks confidence at times and needs support/attention to help her get through those moments, though she tries her best to work through it on her own. Parts of her could be exaggerated due to having to be an idol as well (especially during performances), but I think it's just Kasumi being herself (based on SIFAS and the anime).

The lyrics for her songs go deep into her character; her solo for the anime, "Poppin' Up", expresses how she finds cuteness to be her happiness whenever she's down and there's the implication that it "saves [the] world" through the hope and fun that it can give (based off her SIFAS songs, particularly "Diamond").

"Kasumin☆Wonder Tour" has multiple plot lines, as does the anime, and I don't believe that Lanzhu's development took over Kasumi's time. Kasumi's prank-backfiring traits were displayed and her care towards the members was shown through her actions. Yuu said that it was because of Kasumi that they all got to experience everything together during the course of two days, and the others viewed Kasumi in the same light. Though it wasn't said from all of them, they have respect for Kasumi as a fellow school idol/club member and as the club's president (a role that the anime nicely transferred to Kasumi from SIFAS's "Player/You").

Overall, I don't see Kasumi as the butt of the joke or as comedic relief as much as others. She's cute even when she's humorous and scheming, and I think the club members would agree; as much as they respect her as a leader and a rival, they also like to tease her because she's their friend.

C: It's crazy because I used to adamantly hate Kasumin, because her voicelines after lives in SIFAS annoyed me, and I just saw her as a ripoff of Nico. But when I actually started to read the story (and I think watching her lives helped), I was so charmed by how cute she was, and how confident she was, and how funny she was! It was impossible not to adore her. She's become one of my favourite characters in the whole franchise (probably only losing to You or maybe Honk), so I'm glad I gave her a chance. She's so adorable and sweet!

D: Kasumin is my favorite Niji character. In the beginning of the story she feels like Nico (if Nico actually formed and kept the school idol club in first year), who is also one of my favorite,

I think the biggest thing is that she's true to herself. While that leads her into conflict with Setsuna and Lanzhu (SIFAS), it's her passion and love for being a school idol that makes you want to root for her. Also, she is a very considerate person as she cares and thinks of the others. Furthermore, her mischievous side, or how that generally doesn't work out/actually ended up helping the others, is pretty funny. I really like the how she only thinks about how to set the other back, add in how silly she is, and add in how she's actually just a nice person, all those pranks are just laughed off at the "hahaha Kasumin is so silly" level. All those different sides of her makes up the different parts of her charm.

She is cheerful, cute, and just adores the MC - at a level that no one else but Ayumu is at. However, Ayumu is at a level that's too much for me, where Kasumin is at a level that's just right.

Side note, the LUMF cd has a drama cd track where she drank a drink and turned into a completely opposite person. She became a petty and mean-spirited person, which also made me realize how much I like her normal self.

E: She's the Nijigasaki comedy relief. Every group has one character that will basically be there to be funny, or "cause issues".

By "issues", I mean funny little moments that might lead to something like a side quest for the idols. Does this make sense?? I'm not doing a good job explaining it.

Anyway, I love Kasumin! I want to say she's underrated because she doesn't get much development outside of her designated episode, and even then, I can't actually remember if anything important happened in that episode aside from her deciding to join the club (as you'd expect).

But lots of characters don't get enough development, and I'd really like to see a Love Live group with a bit more substance (do NOT get me wrong, I love all of the groups!).

But to sum up...

Kasumi is great, and I want more of her, and more from her.

F: Not gonna lie, there was a time I couldn't stand Kasumi. Between being yet another gremlin character of the franchise and feeling like one of the writer's pets in SIFAS story who got way more screen time than most, I was annoyed by her more than anything. 

Then, Mutekikyuu Believer came out and showed that maybe there's more to her than being a gremlin after all. 

Shortly after that, we got Margaret, which drove that point home by having Kasumi reveal her 'real face', laying bare all the insecurities that she'd been hiding underneath the mask of her usual gremlin self. 

But since that apparently wasn't enough for the staff, they also gave us more interesting stuff in Anigasaki S1. And while Kasumi's own episode was nice and showed that she has the capacity to reflect on her actions and stop forcing her ideals onto other people, I'd say it's Shizuku's episode where she really gets to shine, making the episode as important to her as it is to Shizuku. Not only does it show Kasumi in a completely different light - as someone who's surprisingly observant when it comes to her friends and is willing to go to any lengths to help them - it also gives her a chance to show her true self. Quite literally - in the scene where she tells Shizuku she loves her, she refers to herself as 'watashi' instead of 'Kasumin', which might not seem like much, but I'm pretty sure this is the only time she does that in front of another person. The way I see it, Kasumi's little pep talk isn't just her giving Shizuku a push - it's also her leading by example and going so far out of her comfort zone that she had to run away to save her face the moment she realized what she'd done.

And so, Kasumi somehow went from being one of my least favorite characters to being one of my two favorites, together with Shizuku. 

Ironically, I still find her infuriating though. Well, not her character per se, but the way her character (arc) is being treated by the anime staff. At this point, there's more than enough hints showing that there's so much more to Kasumi than meets the eye, but so far the anime is avoiding properly exploring what's really going on with her, especially in S2 where she doesn't have much presence other than embarrassing herself in episode 10.

And while there are many breadcrumbs here and there I could use to make some educated guesses and try to fill the numerous blank spaces, at the end of the day it's all glorified headcanon. 

Here's hoping the movie actually does something meaningful with her. And for what it's worth, the latest PV gives me some hope seeing that Kasumi is the only one who didn't get a preview of her solo song and it won't surprise me if it ends up being completely different from her usual(?) gremlin stuff and something much more in pine with Margaret or Senobi Shitatte. 

(Official Comment)

July 2017 Ranking Comment (3rd Place)
Huh? Am I 3rd place? Huh? Is that so? That's strange......
But, but, it's a shame I didn't make it to 1st, but 3rd place is still amazing, right?
Thank you to everyone who voted~ I'll make sure to remember the names of everyone who voted for Kasumi in the first poll as a memento. I'd be happy to see your names on the list in the next poll too♪
I'll work even harder so I can take 1st place next time. To do that, I need to come up with various strategies......
Ah, right. First, I should send congratulatory letters to Rinako and Setsuna- senpai♪
November 2019 Special Message (3rd Place)
Is this a Christmas tree? Since decorating really shows off a person's sense of style, I can't let my guard down. A Christmas tree before it's decorated is, so to speak, a school idol before standing on stage... In other words, decorations for the tree are like school idol costumes for Kasumi! I think to myself, "Hmm," but if I could just snap at it that quickly, I wouldn't be in this predicament. But, but, since Kasumi is the one decorating it anyway, it has to be something exceptionally cute that stands out♪ Right. It seems like the tree would glow if I decorated it with a life-size panel of Kasumi or photos of her. Ah, but since everyone said they would decorate one each, maybe not anything too big will work. Then, I'll attach this Christmas card-style letter, *hoo-hoo*—of course, I won't write the sender's name. I'll write, "I've prepared lots of Christmas cake, so please eat it all." With this, everyone except Kasumi is guaranteed to have chubby bellies...... Nihihi♪