
    name        : Lanzhu Zhong
    kanji       : ショウ・ランジュ
    color       : #f8c8c4
    mbti        : ENTJ(85), ENTP(3)

    (introduction)
    Nihao! It's Shou Ranju! Ranju has always been told things like, "Ranju-chan is from a different, sparkling world," or "It's so fascinating that you're special and can do anything." But there was nothing sparkling. So when I discovered something truly sparkling, I was incredibly excited. The unforgettable School Idol Festival! Everyone from the Nijigasaki High School Idol Club I saw back then! They were so charming and sparkling that Ranju fell in love at first sight. That's why I came straight from Hong Kong. Because I wanted to be a school idol with everyone!! School idols, and everyone at Nijigasaki, taught Ranju so many things she didn't know. And they gave Ranju the world she had always dreamed of! So from now on, Ranju wants to give everyone a dream-like world. I don't know if I can do it well, but I want to enjoy it with everyone! Hey, let's play together with Ranju!

    (nijichizu)
    A second-year at Nijigasaki High School, studying abroad from Hong Kong. She comes from a wealthy family and demands perfection from herself in everything she does. She loves all the members of the School Idol Club. Her favorite food is meat.

    (idol.st)
    background:
    Lanzhu applied to Nijigasaki with her good friend Mia Taylor. She is childhood friends with the current student council president, Shioriko Mifune. She was first introduced in Chapter 19 of the All Stars story and since Chapter 20, she is the leader of the Association, which she created as a way to help the members of the Club, which she admires greatly, to improve by working with professionals she hired. She initially banned the Club in order to force its members to join the Association but later allowed it to exist again in parallel with it until the latter's subsequent dissolution in Chapter 28. In Chapter 29, Lanzhu apologizes to the Protagonist about her previous actions and officially joins the School Club as its 13th member and 12th school idol alongside Mia.

    personality:
    Since she was a kid, Lanzhu was treated as a gifted girl due to her noticeable talents in many fields. However, this generated insecurity in her as she was always eventually left by others because she was treated as 'special' and not as an equal among her peers. Despite showing herself as a charismatic girl, her unique personality tends to catch others off guard by how demanding she can be with them so that they achieve excellent results like her, which leads her to make questionable decisions and to treat people in a way that usually makes them feel insulted. Even so, she doesn't hesitate to seek every possible way to befriend others. Lanzhu shows herself to be very competitive and somewhat arrogant in the anime, though, she doesn't appear as hostile and rude towards the Club as in the game.

    (wikipedia)
    Lanzhu is a second-year student and Shioriko's childhood friend. She was raised in Hong Kong. Her mother is the chairwoman of Nijigasaki High School. She is trilingual and speaks Japanese, Mandarin, and Cantonese. She applies to Nijigasaki to study together with Shioriko along with Mia. In All Stars, she got her own solo song as well as a 3D model a while after her first appearance, but was only added as playable character in September 2021. She is an arrogant and stuck up girl who has no empathy for others, but she will secretly would like to connect with others on an emotional level; in contrast, while still cockling, her portrayal in the anime is much soft.

    (reddit opinion)

    A: Onto Lanzhu: It's pretty well known at this stage how controversial a character she is. (Hopefully things don't get too heated this week lol.) I find people either love her or hate her, and I think it's a pretty even split these days too.

    I'm sort of torn over her. On one hand, I like her as a character. She's got a unique, charming personality, an excellent design, and I like how she bounces between sharp-minded girlboss and a fangirling idiot. And I mean that as a compliment-- Lanzhu's really funny at times, lol.

    But on the other hand, I don't really like her function in the story. I think Lanzhu gave the Nijigasaki girls a common threat, which in turn united them and gave reason for the subunits. But I didn't really want Nijigasaki to be united in any way, I preferred them as solo idols. I was sad to see so few solo songs in S2, so on my first watch I put a lot of that disappoint on the subunits, and Lanzhu. Her threat throughout the show felt pretty exaggerated to me too, I thought she just capitalized on the promo video mistake and got beaten soundly from then on.

    But I don't fully hold these positions anymore. It was the girls' decision to form subunits, not Lanzhu's, even if it was made because of her. I was also swayed a little on the subunits and tolerate them now-- which is a separate discussion, but it did help me warm to Lanzhu. I think I didn't give Eutopia enough credit either: it's an amazing MV, and although it's not my kind of music I 100% see how it'd make you a Lanzhu fan. While I can't fully shake the negative associations, I've come around to Lanzhu a lot.

    I also think we still have a lot to learn about her! She joined the group very late in S2, and we don't have much of her interacting with the others outside of R3BIRTH. I think she could get on surprisingly well with Rina, they're both very upbeat yet competitive and could even relate on their feelings of isolation. I can also see her befriending Emma easily as they're both airheaded food-loving transfers (lol), but these would have to happen outside of the upcoming movie so it's sadly unlikely.

    B: 
    It’s time for the QUEEN. Absolutely one of the most dominant and memorable entrances out of any character in the show. Lanzhu is an absolute joy to watch whenever she’s on screen.

    I think that calling her an antagonist is a bit of a misnomer. The entire point of Nijigasaki is the idea of “friends but rivals, rivals but friends”. And Lanzhu’s entire arc over s2 reflected that. At her introduction, Lanzhu is a rival to all of the girls at Nijigaku. She has Mia helping her write music, and she wants to outperform the other girls, not to destroy them or anything, but just because she wants to be the best. It’s an important distinction.

    Over the course of S2, Lanzhu loses a lot of her motivation and reasoning to continue to compete with the Niji girls because she doesn’t see herself as a rival anymore. Her development towards the final few episodes revolves around her learning to become friends with everyone. The idea of “rivals but friends” is what allows Lanzhu to truly grow as an idol. By the time Next Sky rolls around (and Nijiyon if you count that) Lanzhu’s dynamic with the rest of the girls has changed dramatically, and it’s very fun to watch. She’s a friend and fellow school idol now!

    I think Lanzhu’s relationships with the other girls are best explored through the other R3birth characters. Her relationship with Mia changing from simple work partners to being friends and someone she can trust is a great direction for both of them, since they both seem to struggle with opening up to the people around them. And I really, really wish that we got more LanShio screentime in s2. Their dynamic wasn’t explored much beyond “they’re childhood friends who get back together”. I think that Shioriko really brings out a different, more vulnerable side of Lanzhu that we don’t often get to see, and I do think that she was responsible for Lanzhu’s emotional growth over the course of s2.

    I still haven’t seen the first movie (America sucks) so I’m very excited to see how Lanzhu internalizes the idea of “rivals but friends” going forward.

    I’m not sure if her character has any stereotypes about Chinese culture (I don’t know nearly enough to say anything) but I love watching Lanzhu whenever she’s on screen, and I’m always excited for some extra diversity.

    TLDR: all hail the queen, Homin does a stellar job, please stop saying this girl is a n antagonist she’s just doing her best. LanShio SS-tier ship, 11/10 谢谢 Lanzhu!

    C: Love her or hate her, love her. Yea, she's fantastic, strong, vulnerable, childish, and just an overall fun character. She's plenty great, and while I never played the SIFAS ver(I'm well aware she was not liked there), her time in the anime has been the bomb. She's given so much to the story. The first canonical subunits in the anime are created thanks to her, I believe. (At least the typical subunit anyway). She's also part of my favourite subunit from nijigasaki, R3BIRTH. She's got the coolest gang, is actually quite wholesome, and rocks alone, too. Her phoenix song from the recent movie, though I know not the content of the movie just yet, is fantastic and expresses her growth well. I think she's the character that makes the most growth in the story. Also, her character design is the bomb. I absolutely love it! I don't even love nijigasaki as much as my favourite Liella, but I love Lanzhu enough to match it.

    Also, Homin, her seiyuu, is the GOAT. Like she's one of us secretly. I swear she loves this franchise so much and puts that love into her work and performances as Lanzhu. I can't get enough of Homin. (Go watch her videos with Liyuu. You can hear her fangirl so much about the franchise and Lanzhu)

    D: 
    I loved her songs before getting in Nijigasaki, specially how she is able to blend Chinese with Japanese in her music, and her character design really caught my attention as well, so at a first glance, I thought I would like her quite a lot. But unfortunately curiosity got the better of me and I ended up digging some info about her while I was still going through Nijigasaki S1 with a friend, and I happened to learn about her controversy. I did feel bad about her ngl, but it did fit with her personality.

    Watching S2, her entrance was really impressive, Eutopia’s MV blew me and almost forgot about all that, to be shoved the reason of her negativity again. I don’t mind characters going for a more villain/rival approach, but I kinda felt like it didn’t really fit Lanzhu. Not that this made me like her any less though. She act really confidently believing she’s the best, and backs it up with a really good performance, has a really strong personality, but at the same time, she has a funny personality being hardcore fan girl of Love Live and idols, the episode of her buying too much stuff really made me laugh, and if I remember correctly, there was an image about that as one of the loading screens in SIF2. I do agree with Mia in the fact that some of the things she says sometimes can be irritating though, but overall I love this two sided personality she has.

    But honestly I don’t really like how they developed her story in the anime, she played the headstrong proud rival that aspired to be the best solo idol to someone who found herself outmatched, lost her confidence and felt lonely, i understand that they really didn’t want to create another controversy but her plot felt that it was missing something in my opinion.

    About her relationship with the others, she joined the group quite late, and unfortunately there’s not much that comes to mind, but I really liked her relationship with the R3BIRTH characters, she started with Mia as work partners, but ended up with a really important friendship, as can be seen on how she knew well Mia would be the kind of girl who “needs help” to wake up, and her relationship with Shioriko, that even if it’s just childhood friends, the fact that they try to hang out together even if they don’t seem to be able to initiate conversation is still sign of a deep bond, at least how I view it, since it’s a case a can feel related to. Also have to point out her dynamic with Kasumi, even if brief, during the last chapter of S2, on how they both aim to be the best idol and find rivalry in each other, that smirk Kasumi did after Lanzhu’s performance when looking at her and then both doing a high five to pass on the role really made me appreciate both of them more.

    As for Next Sky, I don’t have it clear on my head anymore, guess I will have to check it out again before seeing the movies when they release. But I will say I loved the reference they did to MONSTER GIRLS during the opening song, I love how well they implemented the 3 languages in that song, while Feel Alive was a really calm and relaxing song in comparison that while it’s not my style, I enjoyed it as well.

    As for my favourite song, without a doubt, it’s of course Eutopia, the song is just iconic, but Queendom always was one that I held in high regard, and now Phoenix as well.

    E: I'll be honest. I absolutely hated Lanzhu in AS S2 and I still think the writing is awful. She was introduced as shutting down the club and then used her power to stop them from performing (the thing they love doing) until they gave in and joined her as backup dancers (Which is very quickly dropped but still in the story). She is then repeatably shilled as this perfect singer, dancer and performer, she gets so much lip service from nearly every character that it very quickly got on my nerves. Over time, a lot of the more antagonistic traits are dropped and I wouldn't say were naturally toned down through development (The backup dancer idea just stops getting mentioned). We then have a little tournament which builds some stories for Ai and Karin, and Lanzhu just wins the tournament proving she's better than all of them. The hard work effort vs natural talent storyline they had been building just fizzles in which I guess she proves her ideology was right but it's not really made a big deal of. The Club vs Association just peeters out, even her change is motivated by Shioriko telling her off, she never does any self retrospection. Lanzhu is actually sad girl who just wanted friends. She's latter revealed to have been inspired by the Club and wanted to perform with them. Does that lineup with her introduction of forceably closing the club she apparently loved so much?

    I didn't mind her being an antagonist which she very much was at first. But she really needed a 'fall' before the redemption similar to Margarete. Have her lose to Setsuna in the finals and then she rethinks about her ideology, that can then lead to the Shioriko fallout. Her storyline is just messy, she never really developed as a character until literally the last couple of chapters nor was there any catharsis for her earlier actions. Hibiki from Pripara tells a much better version of this arc, who also shifted from antagonist to rival much better.

    The anime wisely does a much better job with Lanzhu and I like the framing of her being the one to do the guerilla lives and stand out from the others. Much better portrayal, even if I wouldn't describe her as a favourite. I don't really get the love for her solo songs, I don't find them particularly special. I expect i'm in the minority, but that's just how I feel.

    F: 
    i absolutely loved lanzhu in sifas. shes my favorite character in the franchise and basically favorite fictional character of all time so i have a lot to say 😭😭 she was the first instance of a rival in love live that was actually just mean and did not (initially, for a long time) present any motive. people in the community had been asking for a rival like this for a long time!! everyone seemed too nice.

    knowing what her background was and why she was doing what she was doing was so sweet to me, and as an autistic person i empathized a lot with her. i headcanon her as autistic, and it makes a lot of sense to me because she had an internal conflict with herself, taking what others had been saying to her for years to heart, and then trying to "fix" the issue in the only way that made sense to her. she was alienated and just wanted to make friends with people she admired.

    i dont believe she actually thinks shes better than everyone else and that they are lackluster. i think she has this mindset because it is what she was told her entire life and she didnt know any better from being pretty sheltered other than shioriko, who was generally pretty complacent besides being a little annoyed at how she acts.

    on that topic, her relationship with shioriko is so sweet and i think theyre one of the most underrated pairings in the franchise. shioriko was her only friends throughout her entire childhood, and that made her appreciate her in a different way from all the other girls. shioriko feels somewhat responsible for watching over lanzhu, and is happy to see her forming relationships with other people she knows lanzhu cares about deeply.

    besides all of that, her songs are the best out of the main lineup, she has absolutely no skips and her design is peak. I LOVE LANZHU ZHONG ❤️❤️❤️❤️

    G: This girl was a victim of bad writing in All Stars S2, so thankfully, the anime gave her justice by properly characterizing her and writing her as she should be. The problem with her intro in the game isn't simply because she's a horrible antagonistic jerk to Anata-chan and screwed over the Niji Club (though those definitely didn't help), but that she and the dilemma she presented in the story were so outlandish and borderline Villain Sue-ish even by LL standards. The character shilling she received in-story was also...ehhhh. Compare early AS Shioriko, who also started out antagonistic, but didn't get as much backlash because her character was still grounded and well within the bounds of a Love Live story. The anime did great in grounding Lanzhu and tying her character in the themes of the Niji anime while still remaining as a rival character at the beginning (but much less antagonistic than her game counterpart) which is why, aside from being better written, is much, much better received there than in the game.

    (personality-database.com opinion)

    A: why enneagram 8? gut type? she doesn't even fit the e8 trait structures, i highly believe this is a bias due the fact she comes off as bossy and arrogant, moreover from what i read so far from these comments, the fact she's being analyzed based solely on her song "queendom" more specifically the line "I won't allow you to give me orders" may have caused some confusion, isn't the not wanting to be controlled a common desire? if anyone could explain me their vote I'd be more than glad.

    i'm conviced she's an e3, her character revolves around the idea of being loved and appreciated, lanzhu is extremely self-image centred, she bends herself and her actions according to use this image to get what she wants, she can be very manipulative and is talented in charming the enviroment, she is easily able to rub off her beliefs onto others, although she does so because she genuinely thinks it's the best for everyone. she doesn’t ever mean to hurt anyone, but people misunderstand her.
    deep inside she just wants to befriend others. since she was little she has been treated as the gifted kid, however, this generated insecurity in her as she was always eventually left by others because she was too talented and no one could keep up with her. she often wonders how to be normal and why she is so different from others, she suffers this loneliness, and always blames the fact she’s exceptional, hence, different from everyone. she literally moved to japan just because she wanted to be a school idol with everyone in the club, she thought they could understand her and accept her for who she is, lanzhu was indeed jealous of them because they had everything she always wanted. i don’t know you but this screams heart type to me.

    enneagram 3 and 8 can be very similar under some aspects, they're both very concerned with competition and winning, also very focused with power, reason why i can firmly state her subtype is social 3.

    social 3s have a desire to be seen and have influence with people, they act out of vanity thru the desire to shine before the whole world, they enjoy being on stage.
    they’re the most aggressive of the 3s, possessing a strong and assertive character. because they are good at numbing out their feelings, they can, in the extreme, be cold.
    so3s have a corporate mentality and a passion for doing the job in the best way it can be done, especially in terms of outward appearances. they think about what is best for the group, especially in terms of what will sell, what looks good, and what will reflect well on them.
    this three also has a lot of confidence in leading a group where they want to go. if a leader is not leading a group well enough, the social three can feel a strong desire to take over, as it can be frustrating for them to see the way forward and not be able to guide people in a more efficient or successful way. the social three enjoys being at the center of things.

    now let's take a look at some e3 trait strucutres which i think describe her perfectly:

    attention need and vanity: cultivation of appearance in order to be seen/heard/appreciated, sense of loneliness, chronic frustration from the need to be for others, belief that they may not be loved without accomplishments/attractiveness, fear of failure, perfectionism of form, imitation/chameleon-like, generalized desire to please and attract, refined

    achieving orientation: ability to do things expeditiously and precisely, specially efficient, practical, tend to undervalue thinking that is not logical and scientific, systematic, success>considerateness, often cool/calculating, value self-control, insisting things are done their way, competitiveness, deception, bluffing, self-promotion, slander, tension

    social sophistication and skill: entertaining, enthusiastic, bubbly, sparkling, conversationally active, pleasing, needing applause, witty, concern with status

    pragmatism: rationality, intellectual, organized, keen, practical, functional

    active vigilance: incapable of surrender or self-abandonment, attitude of self-reliance, anxiety about things not going right—need everything under control, superficial optimism

    superficiality: lacking access to the depth of their feelings, not knowing who they are beyond tangible characteristics and roles, not knowing what they want beyond pleasing others and being effective (fi inf)

    if you’re still not convinced feel free to make further questions, i’m very open minded about this topic

    sources:
    character and neurosis by claudio naranjo
    the complete enneagram by beatrice chestnut



