
name        : Mia Taylor
kanji       : ミア・テイラー
color       : #a9a898
mbti        : ISTP(39), ISTJ(16), INTJ(2)

(introduction)
Hi. I'm Mia Taylor. First off, I'm in charge of composition, do you know that? Well, I guess that's enough. I wasn't originally interested in things like school idols; Ranju dragged me all the way to Japan against my will, and I thought I was a burden. However, coming here and meeting the school idols allowed me to rediscover what I truly wanted to do. It was the dream I had to give up when I was young: wanting to sing. I don't dislike composing. It actually seems to be my style. But I've always wanted to sing. I wanted to express my heart, the world, and my emotions through songs I truly love. However, I missed out because I lacked confidence. To be honest, I still lack confidence. But because Rina and Baby-chan taught me that if it's something everyone likes, I can definitely do it, I've mustered the courage to sing. Starting from small stages, I'll work hard so I can sing my own songs. So please watch me. Watch me, the one who started as a school idol!
2.2. Appearance

(nijichizu)
14-years-old, but already a university student in the US and a third-year high school student at Nijigasaki. A member of the world-famous musical Taylor family. Can be very cocky at times. She has very strong opinions about hamburgers and baseball.

(idol.st)
background:
She was brought to Nijigasaki (more specifically 'dragged') by her friend Lanzhu Zhong. She was first introduced in Chapter 19 of Love Live! School Idol Festival ALL STARS. Despite coming from a family of esteemed musicians, Mia would much rather prefer the life of a homebody and eat nothing but burgers. Mia is considered a 'music prodigy' by Lanzhu; she was an American college student before immediately transferring into Nijigasaki as a third year due to her skills, despite only being 14 years old. In Chapter 29 of the main story, Mia officially joins the Nijigasaki High School Idol Club as its 12th member and 11th school idol alongside Lanzhu.

personality:
Mia is a very straightforward and competitive girl, to the point of declaring war on the player as a songwriter out of the blue. However, her confidence is a façade and she actually tends to feel insecure about her songs' quality compared to the player's. At some point, she tried to determine why she felt this way despite being convinced that her own songs were better than the player's and went to discuss the other girl's songwriting skills with Rina, who suggested she get closer to the player in order to better understand her.

(wikipedia)
Mia is Lanzhu's friend, who was raised in New York. She is bilingual; she speaks Japanese and English. Unlike Lanzhu, Mia applies to Nijigasaki only because she was persuaded by Lanzhu. She is fairly, aloof, standoffish, and apathetic at first, but she gets on good terms with Yu and they help each other with musical compositions. Mia is a 14-year-old girl but, since she is a genius, skipped grades and is a third year student; she also helps the other members at studying. She is the youngest main character in the franchise history. She gets her solo song and a 3D model a while after her first appearance, but was only added as a playable character in September 2021.

(reddit opinion)

A: Americans, I have to ask: how well represented do you feel by Mia? Because as an outsider I can see her being so stereotypical it's almost insulting... but at the same time, I can also see it looping right back around integer-overflow style to perfect.

For my own opinions on Mia, she's absolutely one of my Nijigaku favourites. Her story is great, almost like a fusion of Riko's and Maki's in my mind, and gives the perfect backstory to her angsty, angry personality. I'm glad Love Live finally made a hot-headed character without leaning too heavy into the tsundere stereotype: her anger was a consequence of her tough life, something she overcame and eventually abandoned.

The subsequent "mean-girl" type personality she developed was also very fitting and surprisingly enjoyable-- probably because I knew how put-on it was lol, and how much it got undercut by her being, y'know, 14 years old. Her laser-focus weighing her down to the point of near collapse from hunger and exhaustion was great to see in Love Live too, and it made Mia feel very real and fleshed out as a character.

Despite her over-Americanness. I feel I should dislike her obvious stereotypes, her love for burgers and baseball and her loud-mouthed New-York-ness feels pretty forced all things considered, but it's also just kinda funny. I think as long as a character's joke traits don't come to overshadow their serious traits hanamaru then it's fine, and Mia's definitely don't. Yes, she's an angsty overworked 14 year old lashing out at everyone trying to help her, but also yes, she's won over by Rina just getting her burgers a lot.

Seeing this story unfold with Rina (and to an extent Yu) was my favourite part of S2 by far, I love characters with contrasting similarities and Rina and Mia are an excellent example. It's like Rina's a quiet housecat that only wants pets and Mia an angry territorial hand-scratching cat lol.

Honestly, I don't have any criticisms to make of Mia. She's an amazing character with great design and personality, and her story in S2 was pretty much flawless for me. If there's anything I'd like to see I'd love her to confront her family and show how she's blazing her own path now, so here's hoping for the next movie. More interactions outside of R3BIRTH + Rina would be great too, I can see her getting on well with Kanata and I imagine Shizuku would love her New-York-ness lol.

B: Mia time! Our hamburger girl is here. As a bit of a personal note, my last name sounds exactly like the word “burger”. Just thought I’d share.

Mia is an interesting character for me. I can’t really vouch for her from SIFAS, but her character arc in the anime is by far the most drastic out of all of R3birth. She starts off as a standoffish but confident girl with everything to prove, but winds up feeling accepted and no longer afraid of herself. Her dynamic with Lanzhu is also fun to watch.

Her backstory reminds me a lot of Eli’s; she was incredibly talented from a young age, but wasn’t able to perform when it mattered, and as such lost a lot of faith in herself. Outwardly, she uses her skills and talent to produce incredible music, but she lacks an internal sort of self confidence that she ~is~ good enough and doesn’t need external validation. I think her journey to becoming a school idol relies on opening herself up to others and finding that confidence.

Mia also becomes a wonderful “rival” for Yu’s character arc in season 2, being the top of the music class despite being a recent transfer student. Yu’s passion and desire to follow her dreams is tested, but also reinforced by Mia throughout the season, and I really like how Mia is willing to help out Yu with advice for writing her own music.

Mia could have been relegated to the “genius transfer student” role, but the anime took several steps to differentiate her from that archetype. Her emotional vulnerability is also a great character trait, and I really love that it’s Rina of all characters that is able to help her open up.

Something I really wish we got to see more of in the Next Sky OVA was Mia talking with the other girls in English, but their VA’s weren’t native speakers.

By the way, I NEED to gush about Shuu-chan. Not only does she do an amazing job voicing the character in Japanese, she speaks fluent English! Granted she was born and raised in Australia so that makes sense, but still! The first time I heard Mia speak in English I had to do a double take. Hearing natural English in a Japanese anime is such a rare experience. There are a few times when her Australian accent ~almost~ slips through, but you really have to be trying to hear it. It’s always so fun to hear Shuu-chan start speaking native English and hear a thick Australian accent. “Stars we Chase” felt straight out of early 2000’s pop music, and was super fun!

As an American (ugh) I don’t feel like Mia brings any real stereotypes or anything, probably in the same way Keke or Lanzhu don’t really bring anything about China (I think..?). Her liking burgers is cute, and while I don’t eat them nearly as often as she does, it’s not a bad look! If anything, I’m sure most Japanese people would be muuuch happier if more foreigners were like Mia.

TLDR: Borgar yummy. Taylor Mia > Taylor Swift. Easily the best English I’ve heard in any anime. Don’t really ship her with anyone unless it’s for Rina’s blonde harem, A-tier concept. 11/10 for our favorite Platinum New Yorker.

C: Honestly hearing I’m still… when it first released is what got me back into Love Live after a two-ish year break from the series. Getting the rep of having an American character who’s fluent in English was so cool it drew me right in. I imagine it was similar for Chinese fans when Keke and Lanzhu were announced. Wish we could get a full Mandarin song from them. (Or Cantonese from Lanzhu as she’s a Hong Konger but don’t wanna upset the Chinese market too much. I just headcannon that Lanzhu’s parents are Taiwanese or recent mainland immigrants to explain why Mandarin is her primary language

D: One thing I want to point out is that Mia's "Grade" is just culture shock on both sides. As far as I'm aware Japan grades/years are strict so her even being "third year" is a major outliar. This partially explains why basically no-one treats her as such. There's also the experience seniority as she's only been in the country for so long.

Interestingly, Mia took the same music exam as Yu. Mia's position is practically just an honorary excuse, and we can blame Lanzhu for her presence. Mia knows this which is why she basically does the bare "minimum" academically, she just really doesn't like being the youngest.

E: It’s finally Mia time! She’s my favourite from Nijigasaki, I love her songs and her character design is one of my favourites as well.

The stereotypes she brings in are honestly fun and a bit accurate from the perspective of some of my American friends, and honestly I do think they bring a lot of charm to the group since it makes the fact that all members are unique even more relevant, but I think what impacted me the most is hearing someone with perfect English in anime, really did caught me off guard. Shu’s voice acting was definitely impressive.

While I am unaware of SIFAS events, I did find her story quite enjoyable, being a musical prodigy that can get a music quiz on a whim with just hearing from the hallways, really cool thing to see, how her headstrong and angsty, and partially aggressive attitude was a result of a trauma of her past, how she felt the pressure of her family’s reputation which hindered her of reaching her dreams, being really talented but unable to sing in front of a big crowd, which made her lose faith in herself, and even despite that, she still forced herself to do something music related just so she can keep up with the expectations of her family name and focused only on doing what was the “best” approach to create music that others enjoyed rather than what she really wanted, but eventually found a way to overcome the problems that dragged her down thanks to Rina and the group, she stood up again and started reaching for her dreams again, and eventually finding the courage to sing in a stage with a big crowd with the help of Rina in the last episode, one of my favourite developments. Her extreme focus on being dead set on completing what she wants to no matter what to the point of neglecting her own eating feels so relatable to me, it really brings a unique vibe to the character, but then again I might be biased towards her.

Her relationship with the group and with Rina and Yu was also enjoyable to watch, how she acted coldly towards the group and rejected them, but eventually got convinced by Rina with hamburgers, how she always attempted to play with Hampen but rarely had success, how she puts Yu’s dreams into test and eventually helps her out, and her dynamic with Lanzhu being from partners to rivals was very touching. Honestly my favourite is Mia’s relationship with Rina (she’s really an expert in hunting her blond girl harem is she not?), despite the temper Mia had after what happened with Lanzhu, Rina still kept calm and managed to calm her down, they feel like polar opposites that work well together. I was also surprised about how knowledgeable she actually is that she is even able to teach Karin despite being 14. Also her fear for dogs is really cute.

I was glad the OVA was more focused towards R3BIRTH, but I honestly felt that it didn’t bring much for Mia, but still it was enjoyable. Hopefully the movie will give us a lot more memorable moments of her, excited to hear her song and her monthly song as well, definitely looking forward to it.

My favourite song of her is without question stars we chase, it’s the song that caught me the moment I listened to it and the main reason I got into Love Live, which I’m truly grateful, and for that she will always have a special place in my heart. To pick a second, Lemonade also struck me the moment I heard it.

(personality-database.com opinion)

A: "SiTe’s naturally use Si to catalogue experiences and information they deem important. In particular, they remember their impressions of experiences they’ve had. They have an organized internal world and their mind can easily put similar pieces of information into appropriate categories. They learn straightforward, practical systems, rules, and strategies with ease and grace and love when something is done right. Si gives the sense of the SiTe being grounded and having a linear, black and white way of thinking about things."
I do think that Mia is an ISTJ. But I listened the whole story with my poor Japanese so this might be wrong.
From what I know, this is the way Mia composes songs: She composes multiple songs at first, they aren't really good, then she takes out the best parts of them and that's how she composes the final product.
During the 22nd chapter, I think she was in grip. Original club's way of doing things was sort of new to her, and it was against what she knew which caused her stress and she became unable to compose. Shizuku's performance was something fun, and Mia forgot the fact that you have to have fun while doing music, and she struggled actually processing it- until Rina came along and helped her realize that :)

As for her enneagram, I can't see her being a 6 at all. I think that she is a complete 3, she has to answer others' expectations because her family is full of geniuses, which is why she is THAT hard on herself. Give that poor girl a hug, she is really afraid of failure. 4 wing because I can't see her being a w2 at all. Since her sense of self esteem comes from her career success rather than personal qualities (she thinks that they have no reason to look for her since "she can't compose" in the recent chapter) 3w4 fits her perfectly imo.
Feel free to show me your arguments, I'm obviously not good at this haha

B - ISTP: To me, Mia seem more like an ISTP especially during chapter 22, when she overanalyse Shizuku live. To me, it looks like a Ti-Ni loop, Ti is the logical function for detailed analysis compared to Te which sorts information accordingly. While it’s true that she outsource many ideas for her songs which may seem like the use of Ne, but it’s really a result of her Ti-Ni looping; where whatever information that Ti gather, Ni will make her doubts those information to the point of paranoia hence forces Ti to continually look for more information hence’s the cycle.





