
name        : Rina Tennoji
kanji       : 天王寺 璃奈
color       : #9ca5b9
mbti        : INFP(235), INTP(84)

(introduction)
I'm Tennoji Rina.
I'm a super cute girl. I'm telling you, it's true!
But it's hard for me to show my emotions, so I think I come across as an emotionless girl.
So I thought of something. A secret item that can convey my feelings to everyone .
Its name is the [Rina-chan Board].
I'm going to draw my face on this board to convey my mood.
Yeah, this is perfect. I can share my feelings with everyone even during live performances.
Huh? You want to see my face?
Hmm~, then if everyone cheers for me a lot, I'll show you.
I'll muster up the courage to show you my smile then, so please forgive me if it looks a little strange.

(nijichizu)
A girl who has trouble her emotions through facial expressions. She communicates them by drawing faces on her 'Rina-chan Board.' Her dream is to be connected with everyone by being a school idol.

(idol.st)
background:
In the ALL STARS story, she was invited to become a school idol by the player character. Along with Ai Miyashita and Ayumu Uehara, she works with Famitsu App. Rina is very short with a slim figure. She has messy pink hair which reaches her shoulders and yellow eyes. She wears the 'Auto Emotion Convert Rina-chan Board' on stage and other activities that require both hands. She's often seen with gadgets such as a quadcopter or just working on a tablet or laptop.

personality:
Rina is not good at conveying emotions on her face. Because of this, she makes use of the 'Rina-chan Board', a sketchbook that she draws her emotions on. Rina is also friends with Mia, who met her in Chapter 22 of ALL STARS. Despite her flaws, Rina is still trying to change herself by communicating and talking more with her friends. She admires Ai for her confidence and friendliness. Rina gets nervous easily but continues to try her best. As a school idol, she hopes that people will cheer for her so that she can show everyone her true smile.

(wikipedia)
A first-year student who claims to have a very cute face, but is too shy to show it; thus, she covers her face with the 'Rina-chan board' a small notebook with a drawing on it of a facial expression she made with Ai. During live shows, she wears a cat eared pair of headphones with a small monitor that covers her face. She belongs to the information processing course, explaining her well-informed personality on technologies. In one of Rina's bond episodes of the game and anime series, she eventually decides to reveal her face to the protagonist; in All Stars, after reading this story, the player is also able to remove Rina's mask during live shows. She has difficulty expressing emotions and is shy, but she also has a kind and supportive nature, and is shown to work hard on her technologic gadgets to cure the technical side of the idol club. Rina is described as a 'face-hiding type school idol' (顔出しNG系スクールアイドル, kaodashi NG-kei sukūru aidoru).

(personality-database.com opinion)

A - INFP: 
When Ai hugs her, she asks Ai, "Is this the first time I'm useful to you?" Sounds a lot like an inferior Te desire to me.
And well, she mostly KNOWS what she's feeling. Inferior Fe has problems with that. If she had more problems knowing how she felt inside, she wouldn't be as quick to switch boards with a specific emotion on her board - INTPs would probably take longer to decide what face to put on, due to the fact that they're not usually in tune with what they're feeling.

B - INFP: Can INTP voters explain how she's an INTP other than she can't express her emotions well and has a technical talent? That's just stereotypical because INTPs aren't the only type that can't express their emotions well and they're not the only type who knows technical stuff. My Fi is strong, I don't express my emotions so easily, and I'm not an INTP. I just want someone to explain when she uses Ti and how she's a Ti dom. By the way, a lot of INTP voters are explaining her Fe, but not her Ti.

Reminder that Ti is when rational not when likes technology

Update: Sorry if this sounded rude, I didn't intend for that. I'm just not really sure about what her typology would be and I just wanted a better explanation for her typology

C: Rina is a reminder that INFPs, or any type really, can be tech savvy, and just because she is doesn't mean she's an INTP. And also, like how others have said in the comments, it's likely that she's neurodivergent so we have to factor that in when typing her. Not all INFPs are going to be big sad emotional people everyone, it's just something that is common among many INFPs but not all are like that

D - INFP: guys i've thought about her being INTP as well before and ik people will be biased because i'm an INFP voting a character i like INFP but hear me out
INTP= struggles to understand own and others' feelings
INFP= usually understands it properly yet keeps it rather private, is uncomf with it OR isn't able to express it well
you know the stereotype INFPs are easy to misunderstand? that's because their dominant function is a private, introverted one. i don't remember rina struggling with understanding her own feelings, she just cannot express them

E - INTP: I can see why INFP would be many people's go-to, but I really don't see her as Fi-dom. She isn't unique because she wants to be, nor does she greatly value her own feelings or individuality, she just wants to fit in. Even her board is moreso to make others feel comfortable. And she talks about having developed her issue as a result of not wanting to bother her busy parents with her problems. So I'd say she uses Fe over Fi. Hammered home by her talent for tech, literally building a screen to detect and display facial expressions (to put it mildly: applying logic to the very concept of emotion), which all points to Ti.

She's incredibly creative, with her songs and outfits being some of the most inventive in the whole LL canon. That, as well as coming up with and executing the idea for her board, is a very clear indicator of Ne.

So I'm pretty certain of INTP.

(That being said, I don't think PDB has an intuitive bias so much as it has an INFP bias 🤭)

(reddit opinion)

A: There's the character "archetype" in anime of a neutral, cold, stone-faced person. Perhaps they'll show a little smile once you really get to know them, but otherwise they're essentially a robot. I think it's called kuudere? I'm not sure.

In any case, I do not like it. I don't really know why-- my best guess is it feels insulting? I'm autistic and I always found it frustrating when I was described as stone-faced, even endearingly (and it was usually endearingly). I felt and still feel a breadth of emotions, they just weren't coming out right on the surface. The idea that stone-facedness was defining or even desirable felt like a denial of emotional depth; both of the character and of people like me.

When I first saw Rina, I figured she would go this way. A stereotypical techy girl who is cold-hearted and unemotional, never showing love to anything other than her cat. I was gearing myself up for this sort of insulting display again.

And BOY was I wrong.

Rina is by far the best portrayal of communication struggles I've ever seen. Which is high praise for an idol anime, but I stand by it. The key thing with Rina is she does feel emotion, more than some other members in the club even lol-- she just can't show them with her face. You see her texts and it's full of flair and emojis, you see her electronic Board and it's a new face every second. She's funny, she's caring (with great social awareness), she's energetic, she's silly-- Rina is bursting with emotion. She just can't show it.

And this wrecks her. I love how this is shown, how it wrecks her. She becomes an anxious shut-in mess, afraid to even glance at herself in a pane of glass. Her background is amazingly done, isolating herself and surrounding herself with tech just makes so much sense. Her love for cats makes sense too; cats (and animals) don't care if you smile or frown.

And instead of accepting this, instead of giving in and staying in this world that wrecks her because it's who she "really is" (it's not)-- she makes the board. She finds the communication style that lets her express herself to the world at last. I couldn't have been prouder of Rina than when she looked at her board before Tsunagaru CONNECT and smiled. She didn't give in; she was finally able to show the world the emotional depth she had.

Rina's story isn't really "mine" as an autistic person. I think Rina can be contrasted well with Shizuku: despite her insecurities Rina kept trying to put herself out there, whereas Shizuku chose to hide and walled herself in her mask. But still, I think Rina's story sets a great example. And autism or no autism, the underlying message is one I found deeply touching, even though it's not "mine". She's that emphatic of a character.

Her relationship with Mia is a personal favourite, too. She sees Mia for what she is, a hurt fourteen year-old lashing out to keep everyone away, and sticks her out. Even when Mia slaps her in frustration she stays her ground, only making sure Mia didn't hurt her hand. But that's to be saved for Mia's discussion I suppose lol, this is getting longer than I'd have liked. Ai and Rina is a great pairing too: I love how similar Rina is to her underneath the surface, it's something I think a lot of people miss.

Rina's voice is also amazing, and pairs perfectly with her chiptune-y songs. Tsunagaru CONNECT and Teletelepathy are some of my Nijigaku favourites, they're so fun to listen to.

B: 
Knew her first as a waifu of a close friend of mine. Definitely a cute gimmick, but her revealed face is cute too. Her appearances at Famitsu yonkoma is hilarious due to Famitsu!Ayumu's shenanigans. When the 3rd episode of the anime aired, i caught the news that the Nijigasaki girls finally got their anime and of course i followed it, previously thought that Love Live anime is finally over in 2019 and Nijigasaki would remained game-only.

Rina appears there in the 1st episode, without her mask or board, and my first thought is "refreshing". Her interactions with Ai and Hanpen on the 2nd and 3rd episodes are cute, and i'm happy when she and Ai joined the club together on the 4th episode. When SIFAS Chapter 20 was revealed, i really hope that they would adapt it differently if it ever gets animated, and got my assurance when Episode 5 aired.

THEN, the 6th episode aired and they showed Rina on all her glory. From her first interaction with Ai, then going with Ai and YuPomu to Joypolis, and then declaring that she would have the club's first proper live there. Really felt a pity when she accidentally sees her expressionless face reflected on a window just mere days before her live. Everyone in the club are so understanding towards Rina that she felt that there is nothing wrong with her face, but that turned out to be a detriment. But luckily with Ai and everyone else's help, she overcame that and making her own solution to her expression problem and delivers her performance.

The story about how Rina get her famous Rina-chan board is definitely the best individual character episode for me.

And even after that, she would still use her board sparingly around her friend and classmates, as they are understanding towards her. But seeing the board's quick expression changes on some scenes (notably Episode 10) is hilarious too. Even she also begins to nudge others to a solution if they have a problem, like how she drives Kasumi to properly cheer up Shizuku like Ai has done towards her numerous times.

On the 2nd season of the anime, i wanted to see how the anime would adapt SIFAS Season 2, most notably on how her and Mia's relationship goes and making Rina changed from her usually "protected" role into a more "protective" one while not lessening her precious bond with Ai as with Emma's with Karin. Safe to say, i'm satisfied with her development on both seasons. Firstly as how she turned her weakness into a strength (like Kasumi puts it for her), and secondly as how she grow from a protected person and taker into a protective person and giver.

See, this is how you develop all characters equally.

C: Yeah, SIFAS Rina kinda irked me. I think they had the idea of "a character showing emotion with a flipboard" but struggled to give it a good reason to exist, and the most obvious one was facial insecurity. But that just made it feel like a paper bag over her head, especially since her finally removing it was shown as a good thing. And then whenever she did take it down she was smiling just fine, so I didn't really get the fuss at all. It just seemed like an unhealthy coping mechanism.

In the show though the board feels anagolous to communication devices you see non-verbal people use, touch boards and sign language and such. It makes the board something I'm proud of Rina for having, rather than something I wish she'd ditch.

D: The archetype of character that can’t express themselves very well is usually one I don’t tend to be liking too often unless it’s built upon a story that can explain it well, and in this case, it has been the same.

Initially, I didn’t have much interest in Rina, she didn’t really stand out to me and her interactions were just ok. But that of course changed after seeing her episode, and boy, it hit hard. How she always tried to show any emotion, how she wanted to hang out with friends, everything she wanted to, was blocked by a big obstacle for her: her own fear of being misunderstood. She never gave up, and always kept trying, but despite all her efforts she got no results. That was so saddening, I truly felt bad for her after seeing all that, but what impressed me the most in the end was how she still held hope and overcame the issue thanks to Ai and the club. She focused on what she was good at rather on pressuring herself with what she can (trait that Tsuzuri inherited?) , and found a way to fix it. Rina chan board was honestly a really cool idea, and the paper version she thought on the spot after the concert is just as good, really touching to see that development. Also, what really set the icing on the cake for me was how eventually she would overcome her fear and performed on the first live in S2 without the mask in order to not put pressure to Mia when she saw her fist shaking, that was just peak, and put a new light on the song Telepathy.

Her being a tech and gaming nerd is so relatable, she probably would be the member I would hang out the most with.

Her relationship with Ai was awesome, I always liked the extrovert adopts introvert trope, and this was no exception, it was just so wholesome to see how easily Ai melt her barrier and got into her life. But honestly my favourite would be her relationship with Mia, despite her being cold to the members and showing no interest in them, just like Emma with Lanzhu she kept trying to hang out with Mia, and eventually succeeded, her holding her ground even after Mia lashing her frustration unintentionally at her really improved my perspective on her.

Unfortunately her songs are not really my style, but my favourites of her are Tsunagaru Connect cause it’s so relatable and Telepathy due to the anime.

E: Dunno how I missed this by 11 hours.

I don't talk much online these days, but it's Rina and she absolutely deserves something considering how attached I became, so here we go.

Rina is what got me into watching anything Love Live. I ran across very lovely fanart of Rina and Ai just being cute together, like walking home or something, and that caught my interest because of how unexpectedly heartwarming and sweet it was to me while previously I have never had any interest whatsoever in shipping or romance of any kind.

Immediately knew what kind of characters they were, and while I knew whatever they came from would definitely not end up shipping them in canon, as much as I wished, and still wish it would, it would still be a nice watch, and a nice watch it was, the whole way through.

Rina has taught me I that I have a thing for the soft-spoken, shy and soft characters in fiction because of how attached I got to her lol. I scoured plenty of fanfiction shipping her and Ai, anything soft and fluffy/emotional I could get my hands on. She touched my heart in a way I can say Fiction never has before in my life. It was really something else just how close she felt to my heart. It makes no sense either, because it's not like I can relate to her, but she got really deep in my heart there.

Her episode was, obviously, one of my favorites in the overall show, if you couldn't guess. I love the fact that she hides in a box when things get rough. Just one of those things that makes her that much softer and adorable. Also adore her (Canon, but fanon too lol) relationship with Ai. Having Ai take off running to her house when she hears she hasn't come to school, or Ai's episode in season 2 at the ending petting her head as a nice top-off to a very good episode in its own right. I love how supportive Ai is.

Anyways, don't know what else to say here really, but I just really really love Rina. She moved me in a way I've never been moved by things I've watched/read/played before in my entire life. She's adorable. I'm getting that VN once it comes out and hanging out with her the whole way through.

I need more Rina. She deserves all the love in the world.

(Official Comment)

July 2017 Ranking Comment (1st Place)
Me, first place? I didn't expect this turn of events. I'm
quite surprised. What kind of expression should I make on the Rina-chan board in times like this?
A "smile" out of happiness? Or a "Mmm" full of energy?
Sorry, I'm actually a bit confused. But I'm really happy.
I don't have the confidence to say thank you with my bare face yet, but if you keep cheering me on like this, I think I'll gain that confidence someday.
Right now, it's just over the board, but still, my gratitude.
Rina-chan board "Kiss♪"
August 2017 Ranking Comment (2nd Place)
I never imagined I’d make it into the Top 3 again. It
feels like a dream to have people cheering for me like this, and I’m so happy.
Rina-chan Board "Yaho~♪"
However, getting 2nd place this time has stirred up a new feeling inside me.
It is a feeling of "frustration." I didn't expect to feel this way, so
I didn't prepare a frustrated face for the Rina-chan Board.
......This is definitely growth, isn't it?
Setsuna- san is an amazing person, but I’ll try even harder so I don’t lose next time.
I’ll work really hard, so please cheer for me.
Rina-chan Board "Bow"
September 2017 Ranking Comment (2nd Place)
2nd place... This... this isn't a surprise project by the school idols... it really isn't, is it?
Hmm... Just as Setsuna-san said, I talked with everyone after the last vote.
Everyone was thinking about various things. But since I didn't want to lose either, I thought about it a lot. How can I make myself known more? How can I make people like me?
Everyone in the club is so charming, and compared to them, I can't do much, but I'm still going to try my best and take on the challenge in my own way.
So, the fact that I was able to get 2nd place again—that so many people saw my efforts—is quite touching. Rina-chan Board "Tear..."
But still, 2nd place makes me "frustrated." Still, since this feeling leads to "I'll try harder," I'll cherish it. I'll nurture it carefully so that someday it can become "happy."
So, please continue to support me. Rina-chan Board "Bow"
October 2017 Ranking Comment (3rd Place)
Even though my rank dropped by one, thank you for 3rd place. Rina-chan Board, "Bows."
Right now, I have very mixed feelings. I'm happy that even someone like me can keep staying within the top 3, but I also have a desire to go even higher, and I'm scared that my rank could drop even if I try my best in my own way...
Rina-chan Board, "My head is spinning."
But, I heard that someone told me to look around and said, "Hang in there, Rina."
Rina-chan Board, "Sobbing." Ah, I shouldn't be like this... I'll save the crying for after I get 1st place again... You know, everyone's voices are really cheering me on. Thank you so much.
May 2019 Special Message (3rd Place)
Starting today, summer uniforms. I’m determined to get fresh off the line. I wonder if everyone else will come wearing theirs. I’m really looking forward to it. Rina-chan’s Board [Wa-ah♪] But...... every year around this time, there’s something I worry about...... It’s...... the Rina-chan Board problem. How should I solve this? That determines whether I can get through the rainy season. If it rains a lot, Rina-chan’s Board gets wet and it’s a hassle. Once, when I showed Kasumi-chan the wet [Rina-chan Board], she almost cried. She said it’s scary because her face melts when it gets wet. ......Hehe. On rainy days, I’ll go to Kasumi-chan and show her Rina-chan Board first..... That’ll be fun.
October 2019 Special Message (1st Place)
Wow, that's amazing... Around here, it was nothing but green until summer, but now that autumn is here, it's so different. Since everything is so intensely red wherever you look, it feels like a completely different place... Watching the autumn foliage like this is truly a privilege of autumn. Rina-chan Board “Cool~” I made this Rina-chan Board just for this occasion. Hehe, did my feelings get through? I like that slightly sour look on your face... Ah, a fir tree, look~ It feels nice having a fir tree on the Rina-chan Board. It's super sour. Ah, there's a fir tree on your head, too. I'll hold it for you, so come over here and squat down? ......Okay, I've got it. Hmm, why are you acting so random? There's a fir tree on my head, too? Thanks for looking out for me. For some reason, doing this makes my heart flutter, like you're stroking my head, right...?
December 2019 Special Message (3rd Place)
Ugh, winter will be over soon, but it's still so cold... especially my ears. As expected, it's because the earmuffs I was using until recently broke. If I don't buy new ones quickly...! ――――So, I came to buy earmuffs today. I hope I can find something cute. Ah, this one is the type that sticks to the back of the head. It looks like it would be super warm, but let me take a look a little further. This one is the Orthodox type.[21] It is a type that attaches while wearing the outfit. What should I do, they are all cute...... The most important thing is compatibility with the Rina-chan board. If the inside of the ear is too big, it will bump into the board. It's troublesome. Is there really no perfect earmuff that combines cuteness and compatibility with the Rina-chan board? Next is the last shop. I hope to find an earmuff that meets the requirements....... Ah, this might be good. The head part is shaped like cat ears, so it is similar to the headphones I wear during live performances. Hehehe, it is so cute and seems to match well with the Rina board. Rina-chan board "Thump thump"

