
name        : Setsuna Yuki
kanji       : 優木 せつ菜
color       : #d81c2f
mbti        : ENFJ(90), ESFJ(81)

(introduction)
Hello everyone! I'm Yuki Setsuna!
I have a big ambition!
It's a little embarrassing, but I'll muster up the courage to say it.
It is to become a school idol who makes the world overflow with the emotion of [love]!
Isn't it difficult to honestly express your feelings of affection right now?
Because of various circumstances, like feeling shy or being treated like an idiot by someone.
However, in the world of school idols, no one has to deal with that.
Everyone can honestly say that they love school idols. It is
a sparkling, joyful, and gentle world.
Because here, feelings of affection overflow.
I want to expand this world where everyone can express their feelings of affection even further!
It might be difficult to achieve, but I believe it is possible if we are together.
Let's create a world overflowing with love together! Please take care of me.

(nijichizu)
A rising star of the school idol world. Maybe it's because she's so busy as a school idol, but there is a rumor that no one has ever seen her at school. She loves anime and manga.

(idol.st)
background:
When Setsuna saw school idols for the first time, it felt like 'fate' was calling out to her; the very reason for becoming a school idol herself. Seemingly always busy with school idol activities, Setsuna had become somewhat of an urban legend among the students at Nijigasaki, with many claiming they had never even seen her at school. Setsuna would always wear her idol outfit whenever she is with the Nijigasaki High School Idol Club. But the girl that everyone knew as 'Setsuna Yuki' had actually adopted that name herself, so that her parents would not figure out she was an idol. Setsuna comes from a strict household, where things like anime, manga, and school idols are banned. One reason why she became an urban legend is linked to the fact that she attends the same school as Nana Nakagawa, who has a different appearance than Setsuna. Along with Karin Asaka and Kasumi Nakasu, she works with Dengeki Online. The name 'Setsuna Yuki' came from the characters of a light novel that Nana read. Setsuna is the student council president of Nijigasaki High School as Nana Nakagawa, although she loses her position to Shioriko Mifune in chapter nine of the School Idol Festival ALL STARS story.

personality:
Setsuna has an energetic smile and a distinctive style of performing. She's very friendly, charismatic and naturally people oriented. She is easily excitable and full of energy, and she can be moved emotionally very easily. She lights up whenever she is asked a question about her interests, which include anime, manga, video games, and school idols. While she is a very passionate geek and loves to talk about her otaku hobbies with her friends, due to her status as a serious and hard-working student council president, she feels she has to hide them from her mom. When the latter learns about Setsuna, she is happy with it and cheerfully goes to the concert. She takes her passions very seriously, and with regards to being a school idol, always wants to improve. She wants to share her love of school idols with the world, and help others feel more comfortable saying what they love, but she can be too passionate about idol activities, the reason that drove the members of the original School Idol Club apart and forcing her to disband the club afterwards. As Nana, she also strives to do well in school, so she always does homework as soon as possible and studies on her off days. Setsuna is also very kind and helpful, and is shown to be very supportive of her friends. For example, in the Dengeki 4-koma, she continued to eat Kasumi's spicy bread in order to not let her down since she cooked it for her and Karin. She tries to encourage everyone to pursue their dreams and is open to helping others with their dancing and singing.

(wikipedia)
A second year who, for reasons, does not wear a school uniform nor had anyone seen her at the school. Setsuna is an otaku-type girl who liked singing. It is revealed that Setsuna Yuki is actually her stage name, with her real identity being Nana Nakagawa, Nijigasaki Academy's president of the student council. She is one of the original five school idol club members and had left because she was unable to tolerate its atmosphere due to her strong feelings towards school idols. This caused the club's failing state. Under her student council president disguise, she commands the protagonist to gather 10 members in order to keep the club alive. After 8 members (excluding the protagonist) gathered, she reveals herself to be Setsuna Yuki and rejoined the club. Setsuna is described as a 'Mysterious type school idol' (???系スクールアイドル, ???-kei sukūru aidoru), and once her true identity is revealed, she is shown to be a kind and charismatic person with a very passionate nature that makes others infectious. Setsuna is regarded as '2017 MVP' for ranking first-place three times out of the six monthly popularity polls held; she held second-place in the other polls

(personality-database.com opinion)
A - ESFJ: I’m pretty sure she’s more on the Si-Ne spectrum than she is the Ni-Se spectrum. To quote her in her conversation with Karin from chapter 2 of the story,

K: Can I ask why? From my perspective, your performance already looks perfect.

S: Haha! Not even close! I’m still exploring different possibilities.

K: You’re that far ahead and you’re still experimenting?! Don’t you ever think that you’ve perfected your routine?

S: Well, I can tell when I’ve improved. But I always ask myself, is my choreography good enough? Can I sing better? I try to find better alternatives through trial and error.

I thought Ni was possible in the beginning as well because of her risky plan to get the protagonist to bring 10 people together before the deadline, but reading further in, I think that was more of a fluke. Or, well, to better phrase— It’s not something she uses consistently. Think of it this way, she wanted them to gather 10 people specifically even though the minimum is 5 out of fear of the possibility that 5 members would leave again and the club would become dysfunctional.

B - ESFJ: goal-oriented does not mean ni, her 3 wing makes her extremely goal oriented, since a type 3's core fear is to let others down, to be unsuccesful etc., "goal oriented = ni" is more of a stereotype ig.
as for her si:
"FeSi’s are very concrete inside—they have a sense internally that their world is very black and white; ‘right’, and ‘wrong’. Because of this, FeSi’s can be incredibly hard on themselves. They tend to set very high standards for themselves, because they believe that anything less is unacceptable. FeSi’s can use this to their advantage to create things with excellence, but they should be careful not to get so caught up in it that they don’t actually put anything out there because they feel it isn’t good enough, or become so focused on making things perfect that they lose sight of what actually matters."
so. this is literally her whole arc in the anime.
she pushes her idea of school idols to her friends (which screams si because a ni user would probably a bit more open-minded than that since ni likes to make things abstract) and loses sight of what actually matters- then BECAUSE she hurts other people, she cannot forgive herself, and the perfectionist she is, she stops being a school idol.
yes, nana nakagawa is more of a persona, but it would be wrong to dismiss her completely- because expectations of other people makes a huge impact on setsuna, and her parents, whom she lived with her whole life, is obviously no exception- and as we see in the training episode she does care about rules and has trouble doing things in a non-traditional way, because that's what she has been thought her whole life and it clearly affected her.
in conclusion, setsuna is an ESFJ

C - ESFJ: setsuna has trouble changing her own mind about things- she strictly follows rules and has trouble trying to learn alternate ways of receiving information. for example, in the most recent episode, remember how she got confused because "tagging isn't the same as running"? when karin etc. had no problem with it. same goes with enforcing "being a passionate idol", kasumi had an easier time learning that you don't actually enforce your own values to others to "teach" something. sure- she did come up with the solo-idols idea, so that it'd be beneficial for everyone but I don't think that's enough argument for her to be a ni user when she literally throws pillow in her sleep when she notices kasumi fooling around. idk she kinda parallels umi in that sense

D: i understand the above arguments but i want to counter some points. the moment setsuna asks yu if she can be selfish denotes a concern for what everyone thinks about her. on the other hand, i support the mention of its great use of se over ni, however, i differ that her use of se is healthy. what happened to setsuna was that she acted recklessly (she made a lot of use of se, when it is not her strongest function due to her anticipating a lousy show and her fans disappointed (Fe-Ni), if she had made better use of ni she would have come up with a better plan. what caused the conflict with the other girls was that setsuna made them overstress and she just noticed the feelings of them fans. the first thing she thought of was people, not even on herself or her close friends (a fi user would have prioritized them) and she didn't try to understand their struggles

(reddit opinion)

A: Setsuna is nothing but a massive nerd-in-disguise with adrenaline junkie tendencies and way too much self-confidence. And MAN do I love her for it.

Everything about Setsuna is so stupid and over-the-top, you really can't help but like her. (Well at least I can't; we'll see what the rest of the comments say lol.) She's got such an amazing unique charm to her, from her over-the-top mannerisms to her Clark Kent Nana side right down to her performances-- especially her performances. CHASE! is iconic, the MV doubly so. As a little behind-the-scenes, I try keep the images for this Weekly series to non-CG scenes from the anime only, but the little wink at the start of CHASE! is so perfectly Setsuna I just couldn't find anything better.

I feel she meshes especially well with everyone else in the group, too. She fits perfectly in with the loud energetic types you find in Lanzhu et al, but also shares so much in common with quiet members like Rina and Shizuku, she pretty much gets on with everyone. Even Kasumi who kinda butts heads with her at the start seems to acknowledge how cool she is at the end, lol. It says so much to me how the fandom mostly ships her with Ayumu, when Ayumu was meant to be jealous of her and Yu. Setsuna's just that universally popular.

And you think, "well doesn't that make her a perfect character? Gets on with everyone, her performances are brilliant, almost everyone likes her charm. Isn't she just a flawless character?"

Yes.

So they just make her bad at cooking. Ordinarily this would irritate me a little, giving an otherwise-perfect character a random flaw feels like lazy writing, but with Setsuna it's so perfectly her to be confident-yet-terrible at cooking I love it. I suppose her headstrong-ness is a flaw, she refuses to relent on Kasumi's needs in the original Idol Club, but she gets over it pretty quick when she meets Yu.

If there's one thing I could change with Setsuna: her storyline of running away from home in SIFAS after revealing her double identity was pretty good. I think it could have made for a great episode in the show, Setsuna flitting between each members' house and staying over with them. It would also lean into her headstrong-ness a bit more, because her parents were just worried about her in the end (and I imagine she'd butt heads with everyone if she stayed with them long enough lol), so I feel it could have characterized her a bit better. Still though, Setsuna remains a top-tier character in my eyes. I hate her so much I love her.

B: There's loving, there's Idolizing, and then there's both!

It isn't an exaggeration to say that the scene where Yu first saw Setsuna's performance is exactly the way I felt inside when I heard CHASE! for the first time. I had my doubts about a new group after the success of Muse and Aqours, but I was literally blown away by that banger of a song!

Setsuna is without a doubt my best girl in Love Live! Enough to make a difference in my real life by giving me the burning passion to finish college and eventually pass the board exam. Her fiery passion and energetic attitude are such an attractive features for me.

She possesses the talent, the charisma, and the hard work needed to be the number one school idol. I love her voice as well! Both Tomori and Coco did an astounding job giving life to her. Most of her songs are bangers, with CHASE! still being my favorite.

Her story captivates me as well. An honor student who hides her hobby of being a school idol because of the fear of her parents disapproving of it is quite a compelling scenario. But even so, she pushes on, and I will continue to shout my love for her!

Been waiting for the Setsuna discussion post. It's just a shame I can't write a lengthier post to express my admiration for her.

C: Initially, I wasn’t too interested in her, since the playlist that got me into Nijigasaki only showed me few songs of her, none of them being CHASE! of course, and I just thought she might be a cool character, but didn’t have much going on for her aside of that, and I thought I could skip her.

But then I started watching the anime with a friend, and in the first episode itself she already burned all my previous thoughts in one shot, I instantly got caught by CHASE! and saw it as if I was in the perspective of Yuu, instantly becoming my second favourite, which until today stands firmly. Her strong personality, how fired up she can get when you talk about anime or games, that energy is really contagious, and that’s one of the points I like about her, how it feels like polar opposites when Rina and her are talking about an anime in S1, with her being hyper excited and Rina just “calm” as always, you probably won’t find any boring moment with her. There’s honestly so many memorable moments for me to talk about her, like her overconfidence in everything she does, as you mentioned, the cooking, having watched Niji before Sunshine spared me from feeling bad about her, hope she later on manages to fix that point though, or how she resembles Umi in how she can snipe someone with the pillow in her sleep (Setsuna Scarlet Stormmmm!!!), or how despite being cool and friendly she can even make Karin and Emma be afraid of her seriousness as a president, or how easily she can go with the flow of the situation in the AZUNA episode in S2.

I liked the fact that she was hiding a double personality, and found it funny how all it takes for her to change her personality is to put glasses on, putting so much effort to conceal her identity until Karin just blew her cover, or when Shioriko found out that secret and she panicked, that gave me quite a laugh. But in the end she’s still a respectable president, shown by how she takes the wise and most appropriate decisions in the councils despite being harmful to their goals as school idols, which then found out a way to solve it thanks to everyone, I found it touching that she went from facing the problems alone because of her responsibilities of being a president to counting on her friends. The buildup to her courage to reveal herself to everyone was also awesome and funny, how she finally mustered found valour in telling the truth to her mom and the reaction of the VP, that surely made me chuckle. I could go on, but I honestly think this is kinda long enough, thanks for your time.

As stated, CHASE! is my favourite song of her, one of my every day songs and Melody is in second.

D: 
This may be a controversial opinion, but Setsuna is literally the idol with the most aura out of every single group in love live. Not even 10 minutes in and she already has a whole audience screaming her name, and people shouting and cheering her for DIVE! from the LITERAL THIRD FLOOR.

I love how lovelive personally likes to play with setsuna’s confident side, not only over facial expressions but also her hobbies. I never expected for Setsuna to be such a geek under her cool and confident self, which I relate to so well. She is my biggest kin in all of love live.

Her story was also written extremely well, portraying all sides of her regret incredibly well in SIFAS. Her whole story is about transition and becoming the true version of yourself, and putting away the past which is so admirable of her. Her double persona is the most interesting out of Nijigasaki debatably, and I love how it flows throughout the first season hinting the reveal of her idol self.

Her music is iconic, her voice is iconic and literally her presence anywhere is iconic. The vocals to CHASE! pushed me so far in class and actually motivated me to study more on science which was impossible for me… 😭 I’m glad that two talented seiyuus were put in place for her, as it is amazing how they correspond and align to her character perfectly. With Setsuna, I’ll keep pushing to be her number one fan! （＾∇＾）

E: I've missed a few characters, but there's no way I'd miss out on talking about my favourite idol in Nijigasaki!

Setsuna... Where do I begin?

She's an amazing character, she's pretty well fleshed out, although as always, I still want to know more about her, her past, etc, but this time around it's because I love Setsuna and am genuinely interested in her.

I love that she's got that secret otaku/gamer personality, but also takes her role at school pretty seriously. She gets to really assist the plot, thanks to her position and thanks to her fellow council members. I would go so far as to say she is responsible for the plot, full stop, because without Nana, there is no club.

She gets to let her guard down and be quite goofy too, which is really nice to see, because in the past, the student council presidents have remained pretty strict, even if they do get their moment to be a little more chill. Setsuna is different, she really gets to relax, and that's really refreshing.

She is clearly very passionate about the things she feels are important, geeky things, idols and school council work. It shows, and she cares, genuinely.

I like that she's already an idol, and even though I think it's silly that not a single person thought "huh, this idol looks REALLY familiar, doesn't she?" I did find it funny because she had the whole "Clark Kent/Superman glasses" thing going on.

Again, being an idol already was a massive inspiration for AT LEAST Ayumu and Yuu, no doubt Kasumin and probably the rest of Nijigasaki too. I'm convinced the plot started because of Setsuna.

Her misdemeanors with cooking have made me laugh on more than one occasion.

I love her character design too, and her costumes are on point. I don't have the articulation to explain her clothing, but just know that she stands out to me. Although, if you can't tell already, I'm biased, I love Setsuna.

Now let's get into the biggest reason why I love her.

The moment I heard her voice, I LIKED IT! LOVED IT! Absolutely adored her voice. So damn powerful, so damn impressive, everytime she sings, it impresses me. Tomori Kusonoki became an artist I followed outside of Love Live. The only other seiyuu that made me do this was Shuka Saito.

Do NOT get me wrong, I think every seiyuu in Love Live does an incredible job.

But Tomori absolutely nailed Setsuna's vocals.

Let's give Coco Hayashi credit as well, she also does an amazing job voicing, singing, and performing as Setsuna. She had and still has big boots to fill, and I'll be forever grateful to her for doing her absolute best to continue Setsuna's legacy.

I sincerely hope Tomori is able to recover, I can't imagine what it must be like to live with such a debilitating disease. Here's hoping for a cure some time in the future!

Thank you for these character posts, I always read them, even if I can't always contribute.

I wasn't gonna miss out on this one though!

(Official Comment)
July 2017 Ranking Comment (2nd Place)
I am so happy that so many of you are cheering for me!
When our rookie school idol project started so suddenly, I was briefly worried that we might not receive any support, but
your voices of encouragement are truly reaching me!
Your voices are so warm and joyful that I am feeling a bit excited!
But I shouldn't stop here, right? I need to raise the excitement of this activity so that I can receive support from even more people!
The activities have only just begun. Please let me hear your voices and hearts even more!
August 2017 Ranking Comment (1st Place)
I've taken first place!
It's all thanks to everyone's support. Thank you!
The hot weather has been non-stop lately, and I was on the verge of getting heatstroke, but I felt energized instantly!
It seems like more people participated in this vote than in the first round. Just now, I was talking with everyone in the club about how happy we were.
Also, I heard the vote margins were very close from 1st to 9th place. I can't just
sit around doing nothing! To make sure I don't lose to anyone, and to ensure 'love' reaches even more people,
Yuki Setsuna is running with all her might! I'm going to take on various activities as well!
So please keep watching me!
September 2017 Ranking Comment (1st Place)
I think I've managed to keep first place...!
After the last vote, I talked with everyone in the club about what we could do to boost our activities even more.
Everyone had various ideas and was so enthusiastic that the conversation really heated up. Since I thought it wouldn't have been surprising if anyone took first place next, I am truly happy to have held onto the top spot.
Everyone in the club is a very cool and strong rival, so I will do my best to keep holding onto the top spot!
If I do that, the activities will get hotter and more people will watch, bringing me closer to realizing my ambitions.
Please continue to send your love to Yuki Setsuna! I will send my love to you all too.
I love you all so much♪
October 2017 Ranking Comment (2nd Place)
Thank you, everyone! I made it into the Top 3 again!
You ask if I'm upset about dropping in rank? Of course, I am furious!
But isn't this nail-biting atmosphere, where we can't let our guard down for even a moment, also fun?
Since there are strong rivals, doesn't it make you want to hone your skills even more and train yourself?
It is truly a stroke of luck to have so many people who share my love for school idols!
Let's continue to compete with these colleagues and spread love to everyone! But if possible, let Setsuna's love become number one for you!
November 2017 Ranking Comment (1st Place)
Hehehe. My love has become number one for you!
You know, I feel like I'm becoming more deeply connected to everyone as this vote goes on! 
When my love reaches everyone, and everyone's love reaches me, our hearts connect and become one...
My heart and body are filled with everyone's love, and I am truly happy! I hope everyone feels the same way. I
will continue to send even more love from now on, so please accept my heart♪ 
December 2017 Ranking Comment (2nd Place)
Everyone, thank you always for your support!!
Because everyone supports me, Setsuna is able to work even harder!
Karin ’s first place ranking is just as expected. Seeing how freely she expresses herself, I can understand why she ranked first.
However, I believe that was definitely possible because of the rivalry we share with everyone at Nijigasaki
. We are colleagues and rivals. It is a club that helps each other improve. I think this kind of relationship is truly wonderful. It really sets me on fire!
All of us Nijigasaki members will continue to work hard, so please look forward to it!
January 2019 Special Message (2nd Place)
Hello! Are you on your way back now, too?
I am on my way back. Anyway, the temperature is low again today.
Simdumyeolgak[19] They say that if you do that, even fire feels cool, and if you empty your mind, even winter feels warm! Because I think it's cold, the wind feels cold.
So, when you absolutely can't stand it, why don't you try thinking about something you really like?
When I'm cold, I think about... things like school idols, anime, or games that I really like.
Were you thinking about that just now?…? Th-, that, uh, I'm talking about you. Well, that's nice, isn't it!
Won't you go back now? Of course, with me!
February 2019 Special Message (2nd Place)
Wow, they're in full bloom! Cherry blossoms are lovely to look at, and sakura mochi is delicious to eat—it really lifts my spirits! Why
don't we walk just a little further over there? We might find something even more wonderful. Time is precious, so let's hurry.
Wouldn't it be nice to go to the river over there? It's really pretty around here, too. Ah... look. People really do get speechless when they see something beautiful. Just like the petals filling the water's surface, I want to fill the world with love someday! So, can you give me your greatest love?
March 2019 Special Message (2nd Place)
Did you watch the Super Sentai show on Sunday morning the other day?! Huh? You didn't watch it? Uh, why... did you oversleep? I see. Please let me know if you end up pulling an all-nighter. I'll give you a wake-up call. Oh, right, right. Actually, you know what? The [impossible development] we talked about together on April Fool's Day actually happened! Yellow giving Red freshly baked bread—who would have imagined that? It's a development only you and I could have imagined! I got goosebumps watching it in real-time. Right!? It's amazing! Ah~ I have so much more I want to talk about. Right, is this time okay? Let's just go with this feeling! Yes, thank you! I'm so happy to be able to talk about all the things I like with you. I want to always talk about the things I like with you from now on♪ That's okay, right?
April 2019 Special Message (2nd Place)
What are you doing in your gym clothes? It looks like the sports day is just around the corner. Are you going to the relay? A team competition? I'm getting so excited!!! Is your baton pass perfect? ​​How do you aim for the corners? Right, if I strike a running form... Ah, sorry. I got carried away without realizing it. But since we've decided to do it, I want to win. Is there anything you're worried about? ......I see. So you're worried about the baton pass. It's easy to get nervous when receiving and then let your guard down when passing it. If you're worried, let's practice together! I'll pass it first! The cheer is important! Alright then, here I go~! .....Here! ......Ah, I dropped it. This kind of thing happens when you first practice! Trust me and catch the baton accurately♪ ーーーPhew..... You've gotten pretty good. Then, let's go one last time. ―――Here! Surprised? For the last one, instead of the baton, I handed you a letter I wrote. Read it before you run on Sports Day. I'll be cheering for you!
May 2019 Special Message (1st Place)
Huh? You stopped right in front of the entrance. Is something wrong? Anyway, it's raining heavily~. Judging by your expression, did you... not bring an umbrella? Surely you aren't planning to wait until it stops, are you? But, the forecast said it would rain all day today... Then, let's do this! Would you like to go to the station together? We're going in the same direction. No, no, we should help each other in this difficult situation♪ Oh, by the way, at this rate, a lovers' umbrella[20] It’s turned out like this......Eh! No, it’s nothing! Come on, let’s go. ......Even so, even though it is the rainy season, it’s depressing when it just rains like this...... But, rain doesn’t mean it’s all bad. There are plenty of things you can’t experience on a sunny day, like admiring wet hydrangeas or listening to the sound of raindrops falling on an umbrella. Besides...... I can share an umbrella with you like this...... Right♡ Hehe, if we’re too far apart, we’ll both get wet. So......is it okay if I come a little closer?
June 2019 Special Message (1st Place)
Everyone, thank you for choosing me as the headliner for the 1st LIVE! Since you chose me, I will show you the best Yuki Setsuna, so please look forward to it♪ That said, taking on a leading role in this memorable first live... I feel like I need to put even more effort into it. However, for me, every stage—both the past and the future—is special. Because that live is a one-time event. A space filled with "love" that we create together at that time and place. It is unique and never the same. We cannot assume that we can always create it with the same people in the same place... So, even if it is just a fleeting moment, I want to create the best and most wonderful time possible! To do so, I will keep running! I haven't reached my ideal yet, but! Because I want to witness with you the moment when the world begins to be colored and shine!!!
July 2019 Special Message (1st Place)
Festival... stalls... for some reason, my tension is rising! Hmm, I'm having trouble deciding where to go first. Apple candy, no, shooting, or maybe goldfish fishing? Uh, what should I do? I'm so excited, where should I go first?! Ahh... this won't do, I just can't decide!! Where would you want to go first?? ...Probably starting with the apple candy. ーーI see! So, if you go goldfish fishing or shooting at the beginning, your load will just get heavier! A rational judgment to enjoy the festival to the fullest... I still have a lot to learn myself... But, my passion for the festival won't be defeated! I'll share my own way of enjoying the festival. First, just walk around and look around. There are so many people walking around with smiles on their faces, and it makes me happy too. It's amazing to feel the "heart pounding" or the "I'm having fun!" vibes from the people passing by, isn't it?! Next... go with someone special. Because I want you to create the "love" of summer with someone special. —Now, let's go♪ I want to create tons and tons of "liking" with you too!
August 2019 Special Message (1st Place)
Summer is coming to an end now... and indeed, it's fireworks! It's a quintessential summer market, and look at that huge crowd! It's the autumnal equinox, so it's starting to get cooler, and I find myself missing the hot days. How about you? ...Certainly, the end of summer can be a bit lonely. This might be the last time we get to see fireworks like this. Coming to see the last fireworks of the year, I am very... th-happy! Th-th-together with you... Eh! Didn't you hear me? Don't worry about it too much. Ahaha... More importantly, if we don't hurry, the best spots will be packed up~ Hurry up♪ Haa, sorry... I ran off so suddenly... it looks like the fireworks are about to shoot up. Wow... look! The fireworks just shot up! It's really... incredibly beautiful♪ Ta— Maya~~~~! Did you just see that? It was huge. Ah, a cat, and even a dog firework... C-cute~ ♪ Eh, you didn't hear that earlier... C-are you curious about it...? Then I'll teach you in exchange for your secret! Is that a little mean?
September 2019 Special Message (2nd Place)
Is October already over...? The streets seem to be completely filled with a Halloween atmosphere. Looking at it this way, Halloween is gradually becoming a familiar Japanese event~ Come to think of it, the club members were talking about costumes too....... Even if we say we’re going to dress up for a Halloween party, just in case push comes to shove, what kind of costume should I actually wear...? Should I do a little research...... Ahem. There are a lot of Western monsters like vampires, ghosts, and mummies. Is character costumes being done recently too? This means you could become a character from that anime or light novel! The monsters from anime I saw before certainly seem suitable for Halloween......, no, maybe not...... Ha~. No way. There isn't much time until Halloween, and it would be difficult to recreate them faithfully. That monster was probably supposed to be a dead person who came back to life. The deceased...... Ah, maybe a zombie would be good. If I decide that, there won't be any time. I need to study something about zombies from movies and stuff!
November 2019 Special Message (2nd Place)
*Gasp*... What is going on? So many limited-time gacha pulls just for Christmas! The game alone is piled high with various events! Can I really roll through them all? I can't afford to be too timid. I really want that girl's outfit or this girl's reindeer costume. —Just as I was thinking that, a new anime video is airing on the street screen on Christmas!? ......Let's sort things out first. I'll run through the game events on the train to get to the street screen. Since I can't use my smartphone while walking, if I arrive before the screen, I should be able to run through the events until the broadcast starts. Ah! What happened? I don't have much time. Strike while the iron is hot—I have to leave right now! But they say rushing ruins things. Let's make sure to take proper precautions against the cold. Phew, touch panel gloves ready. —Wow, the streets are so pretty, filled with a Christmas atmosphere. I'm grateful to the new anime series for letting me see this. The game's events are very important, but shall we wait for the broadcast while watching it on the Christmas street for a bit?♪
December 2019 Special Message (2nd Place)
1, 2, 1, 2… … Hmm, I think this part will only shine on stage after I speak a little more casually. I’ll ask someone for their opinion later. Okay, after a break, I’ll fill in the details a bit more carefully… If I overdo the movements here, it might affect the singing. Is there a good alternative—. I see. I see. Like this near the chorus, and since the ending is a fade-out, I need to be mindful of the movements down to my fingertips—. … … Hah! No! I got too absorbed. Before I knew it, it’s getting dark outside. I discovered a few issues during today’s practice, and I really need to finish them properly before the next live. —Hmm, anyway, it’s cold outside. Let’s walk back a little early to get some training. Hmm, what is this? It looks like something fell from above… Could it be a bird’s wing? If so, there seems to be quite a lot of it. Ah, snow… Ah—! Come to think of it, the morning weather forecast said it might snow today. Ahaha..... I was so engrossed in practice that I completely forgot. But, the snowy road is different from usual, and that’s nice♪