
name        : Shioriko Mifune
kanji       : 三船 栞子
color       : #37b484
mbti        : ESTJ(60), ISTJ(42), ISFJ(4)

(introduction)
Hello everyone, nice to meet you. My name is Shioriko Mifune.
I didn't used to have a very positive impression of school idols. However, the turning point that changed that impression was the club's... Eh, you say that's too stiff? Because it's not a speech...? You're right. This wasn't the kind of place for that. Um... I think I'm not very good at conveying my feelings. My desire for everyone to be happy in the right way! I've only just started as a school idol, so I'm inexperienced... but thanks to the guidance I receive from everyone in the club, I'm making various discoveries every day. I am growing.
So please listen to my songs. Please let me convey my feelings.
And would you like to change together with me so that we can all be happy in the right way?
I will do my absolute best and definitely show you results, so please look forward to it!

(nijichizu)
A girl who was chosen to be the student council president despite only being a first-year student. She is earnest and able to act for everyone's benefit and is childhood friends with Lanzhu. She is fond of traditional Japanese dance and is skilled enough in tea ceremony and flower arranging to be an instructor.

(idol.st)
background:
In All Stars, Shioriko is the second daughter of the prestigious and wealthy Mifune family. She challenges Setsuna Yuki for the position of student council president by initiating a re-election because she is dissatisfied with Setsuna's leadership. Shioriko believes that students should do things they can succeed at rather than follow their passions. She states that if she wins, she will disband the School Idol Club. However, after the School Idol Club convinces her to try out being a school idol, she joins the club. In the anime, Shioriko appears in the second season as a member of the student council. Rather than acting in opposition to the School Idol Club, she acts more neutrally, even briefly helping out with club activities. In The Memory of Dreams, it is revealed that her sister used to be a school idol and Shioriko admired school idols as a result. However, after her sister's group failed to get to Love Live, she began to hide away her love for school idols, out of a fear that she'd fail as one herself. After convincing by the club, she decides throw away her fears and becomes a school idol.

personality:
Shioriko is described as calm and academically gifted. She values Japanese tradition and has been trained in traditional dance and flower arranging. She has a talent for identifying people's strengths and weaknesses, and uses this to help students at Nijigasaki High School succeed in their club activities by offering advice. In the game, she can be overly pragmatic, strict, cold and even antagonistic in her behavior; although people are initially upset upon hearing her suggestions, they become thankful when it leads to them succeeding. And despite her somewhat stiff demeanor and lack of self-expression, Shioriko is still a good person who genuinely wants to help others, and often yearns to connect with others deep down. Meanwhile, the anime version is vastly different; despite her serious and professional disposition, she is genuinely nice, polite, supportive and kind from the beginning. Even before joining herself, she always treated the NijiGaku with kindness, and when she accidentally discovered Setsuna and Nana are the same person, she promised to keep it secret.

(wikipedia)
Shioriko is a smart and hard-working first-year student. She becomes the student council president, taking Nana Nakagawa's position, to abolish clubs she believes hold no educational merit for the school, including the school idol club. However, she eventually joins the school idol club herself. In August 2020, Shioriko joined the All Stars game's playable cast and Nijigasaki High School Idol Club as an official member, receiving a solo song, a 3D model, and cards obtainable within the games scouting boxes. Her personality in the anime is completely different from the game. Although still diligent and serious, her anime counterpart is not aggressive and is shown to be kind and supportive towards the club even before she joins. She is also friends with Setsuna to begin with, and keeps her true identity secret when she discovers it.

(personality-database.com opinion)
A - ESTJ: 
ahhh she is finally on ww sifas!! welcome shioriko!!! at first i was torn between ISTJ and ESTJ for her because it is really undeniable she is one of these two, i just wasn't sure of which one, but after reading her bond episodes i'm pretty sure she is an ESTJ because of how she struggled with her inferior Fi while trying to write her first song, looked like a perfect example of a dom Te user problem to me...!! can't wait to see more from her ^^ ~

B - ESTJ: 
i dont think that just because she is a bit nicer in anime or because she matches the stereotypical ISTJ behavior more, it suddenly makes her an ISTJ! its not emma's case, she still seems seems very te dominant, she is just nicer.. not every ESTJ is mean after all!

her whole anime problem stems from the fact that she wants to do what she is the best at; what is the most effective, what she was born to do - that is; supporting the system. she literally says she plans to live her life doing the things she is most effective at, in her best ability and that alone

she is running away from her feelings completely, she neglects fi just because she thinks being a school idol wasnt made for her - but for others. she basically doesnt process her feelings well. she is also scared of ending like her sister; because in her opinion she didnt get to achieve what she wanted to and shioriko doesnt wish to end like that too. ultimately, its the fact that her sister didnt feel like it was a waste convinces her to try becoming an idol too

she is very keen on what she wants to achieve still... just gentler and with different motivations. not only that; her si is weaker for sure, her te just wholly defines her while si just supports it

C - ESTJ: She is basically Umi if she was a lot more strict and hardworking. She is a lot more on the shy side socially, but she has clear inferior Fi. When she appeared and she became the student council's president, she wanted to help everyone and pushed them into the strengths they have by using her Te. She ignored people's feelings though, since she couldn't understand them.
She develops her Fi very well later on the story, and becomes a very healthy ESTJ.

Its funny to see her interactions with Lanzhu and Kaoruko, since she's a lot more shy than the usual ESTJ with everyday interactions, and Lanzhu and Kaoruko tend to push her around a lot.

D - ISFJ: Did not play the game, but as I can see, anime and game version are completely different. While she still is hardworking and serious, in the anime she is a very kind, pleasant, polite and gentle girl, and very supportive of the group even before joining. She is pretty reserved but in the game her supportive auxiliary Fe is obvious, while her Si recalling her past experiences with her sister and her learning from said experiences is likely her main function. Therefore, definitely an ISFJ in the anime.
To be fair, anime and game versions should have different profiles, given the massive differences.

E - ISFJ: Completely different from the game version. Anime Shioriko is quite easily an ISFJ. Very polite and respectful of others, never rude, and far kinder and more empathetic than the game version, with a high Fe. Her Si is also quite evident, with her concrete organization of things when it comes to the council and when she does things with the others. Given her Fe and Si, I'm not completely sure if she is an ISFJ or an ESFJ, that said, but given that she's quite reserved I'd go with ISFJ.


(reddit opinion)

A : 
I like Shioriko, this is mostly based off the SIFAS version which I think fleshes her out. She serves as a good initial antagonist, even winning against Setsuna in a debate and fairly winning the student council presidency. I like her slow progression of intergrating with the club members and trying out as an idol to see why they do it, considering she thinks it's a waste of their talents. It's a slow burn, but I think it's my preferred President converted to idol storyline.

I do find her resolution with Kaoruko weak though, she keeps hinting in text that being an idol and failing 'broke' her sister, which while dark for Love Live! seemed interesting. But then Kaoruko turns up and she's just fine and willingly been disowned, Shioriko just deluded herself into it being worse then it was, which I guess works but feels like a rewrite. I also think her joining at the end of S1, and then immediately joining the Association in S2 is a bit of mistake. We literally just got her in the group and then she jumps ship.

But, I do like her serious nature. First year students tend to be immature but Shioriko acts like a third year, the closest I can think is Maki and she still has her goofy moments. Also Ketsui no Hikari is an awesome debut song, and the best one on the Just Believe album.

B: 
Shioriko time! Our favorite fang girl, and the only student council president in the series to not get in the way of the school idol club. Definitely a bit strict and uptight, but also kind and empathetic. Shioriko brings a new angle to a lot of the archetypes she embodies, especially in a show like Love Live.

Her story arc in the anime for season 2 felt a little less developed than her R3birth partners’, but I blame that on having to juggle 13 different characters. Her journey to understanding what makes being a school idol worthwhile is one of the most unique ones within the entire franchise.

I can’t speak for the differences between SIFAS and anime Shioriko, but I’m very happy with her portrayal. Imagine my surprise when I learned the OVA was going to give her some more character development too!

Next Sky does a wonderful job at exploring some new angles of Shioriko’s character, in a similar fashion to Rina. It’s a relatively straightforward path. She struggles a bit with connecting with her audience, realizes it’s because she’s a bit too formal, decides to take it a bit easier. The neat part is that she doesn’t become a more easygoing person, she realizes that there are times when it’s okay to break some rules, as long as you do it responsibly, of course.

I do sort of wish we got some more time for Shioriko to interact with the other first years. A lot of her screen time was either with Yu and friends, or with the rest of R3birth.

Speaking of… her dynamic with Lanzhu is great. Next Sky develops this a bit more, but I wish they had a bit more time together, considering that they were childhood friends, and they both still really care for each other. I think Shioriko has a hard time showing her affection for other people, but it’s definitely something she would have gotten better at after becoming a school idol.

TL:DR, we love our fang queen. Cyan/Turquoise is a wonderful color. Moepii is amazing. LanShio SS-tier ship. 11/10

C :Nijigasaki by far has some of the strongest personalities in Love Live, right? Every character is so unique and crazy and off-the-walls: it's why they became solo idols, they're all just so different. Even the stand in character of Yu is very much out there.

And then you have Shioriko. By and large just an ordinary person. Deadpan 24/7, working hard in the background, stern but kind as she supports everyone: she's so normal. Shioriko's so sterotypically average, I feel it makes her just as extraordinary as the other girls by comparison lol.

And as much as I feel I should dislike Shioriko for literally just being there, I love her. It's so funny how she just exists. Lanzhu comes back and she doesn't react, Kaoruko comes back and I swear she got sadder, she finds out the President is Setsuna Yuki and she raises her eyebrows a little. Shioriko is surrounded by so much constant chaos, she ends up becoming incredibly emphatic to me.

Of course, I don't think we can talk Shioriko without the SIFAS version of Shioriko. SIFAS and the show are different canons, that was clear from the start, but the differences were so minute (or universally agreed to be improvements) that no one really noticed or cared. Shioriko on the other hand was pretty much completely transformed. Unlike the show in SIFAS she was a villain: motivated by good ideals, sure, but they were in direct contrast to the Club, hence villain. She approached life with such a logical coldness it was almost shocking. She was unlike any other character in the franchise before.

A lot of people prefer SIFAS' version of Shioriko, or at the very least believe it to be better than the show. And I was one of these people for a while, but honestly, I've come to appreciate both. It's funny how show!Shioriko just exists, but it's also funny how SIFAS!Shioriko is so unflinching and cold. I like both versions of Shioriko pretty much equally. Probably show version more, because she's that bit more emphatic, but the difference is marginal.

What I don't like about Shioriko is how she joins the Idol Club. Shioriko's story to me felt like Kaoruko's story: she wanted to be an idol because Kaoruko, but also didn't because Kaoruko, but eventually got over this because Kaoruko. It all just felt a little boring to me: I don't like sibling-based stories in Love Live as a rule, especially with how cruel Kaoruko was to Shioriko, and it felt like Kaoruko was stealing her spotlight.

My hope for Shioriko, my prediction as I watched S2, was for her to admit she thought she couldn't be an idol in comparison to everyone else. Kaoruko was an idol in her own crazy way, Lanzhu is an idol in her own crazy way, and surely the normal Shioriko could never do that, right? What I wanted was for Shioriko to realize she could be an idol in her own refined way, damn the crazy people she grew up with and all. I've gone very far into wishful thinking here, but I think this would have tied in much more nicely to her themes and ideas.

D: Shioriko was the girl that attracted my attention the least in the anime, which I kinda felt bad for since I love R3BIRTH and her songs were amazing, but the way she was portrayed in the show really didn’t make her stand out at all, but I guess that’s kind of the whole point of her character? I don’t really know much about her, and just wish she had more spotlight during the anime. Which I honestly was glad of when I saw the OVA, but unfortunately my opinion overall of her didn’t change much.

She’s formal, strict but overall kind and empathetic, which is probably the character I can relate the most to, and has what I assume it was a fear for failure, since the main reason because she decided to not become an idol was the failure of her sister in fulfilling her dreams, but even so, she never strayed from that desire and helped the idol club despite not joining. That’s probably the things I like the most, as it’s the most relatable to me. The way she faces everything that happens with her impassive expression was really fun, when she found out who Setsuna is, when the three of them were panicking, she was just standing there, menacingly.

Her gradual evolution into joining the club was also kind of underwhelming to me, it put too much emphasis on Kaoruko, which I can totally understand since she was her inspiration to become one, but to the point that she even needed her to give her the push to become one was honestly not my desired outcome.

The OVA gave her the spotlight she needed, how she found it difficult to connect with her audience due to get attitude, how she saw her old self in Isla, how she wanted to give up due to the thought of not being able to her good enough for their own expectations, and encouraged her to keep going, and how she understood that sometimes it’s not bad to let some steam off and be less severe.

Unfortunately, while she’s a character I like a lot, she is among the lowest in the least, probably due to how all 13 of them have really strong personalities and it’s difficult to judge someone who has such small presence in the group.

E: Shioriko, the first ever additional member for the LL series, is an interesting character. They made her a bit too cold in SIFAS so they rounded her out in the anime, but I think they did it a bit too much.

SIFAS Shioriko was a byproduct of the bad writing from season 1-2. She was the cold machine that was there to determine people's aptitude, and had a personal vendetta against the school idol club only because her sister Kaoruko lost everything from making school idol festival. Her change of heart was nice, but was then again reset during season 2 when Lanzhu showed up and she became an active accomplice for her. Her bond stories does show some of the silliness from the over-serious side of her, and it was nice to see her interacting with the twins which led to the Shionyan scene.

In the anime, as season 2 was there to "fix" SIFAS season 2, she became much more tame. She doesn't try to usurp Setsuna, isn't angry all the time, doesn't try to shut down the club, and actually supports the club from the student council side. I think most of the season she was just kind of there - she might be a relive for those who have read SIFAS to know she's not going to cause anything, but at the same time, she was really just there. I think she shines a little bit during Lanzhu joining, and during Kasumi wonderland episode, but that was really just showing a bit of her friendship with Lanzhu, but not too much with the others (especially the huge nerf on her interactions with Ayumu).

She shines more in Next Sky, as she was featured even more than the Isla, so I think that's probably the version I liked the most. I think ultimately it's the gap between "very serious person" vs "oh look she has soften up and letting this one thing go" that makes her interesting. It's like when the emotionless girl finally smiles at you sort of thing.