
name        : Shizuku Osaka
kanji       : 桜坂 しずく
color       : #e7d600
mbti        : INFJ(123), ISFJ(6), ESTP(1)

(introduction)
Hello everyone. I am Shizuku Osaka.
I am a member of the Drama Club because I love acting.
I even make my own costumes and perform regularly. I
was also involved in school idol activities because I thought it would be helpful for my theater work. However,
after a senior I respect
encouraged me to "aim higher as a school idol," I realized something. I learned
that both theater and school idol activities are platforms of expression designed to bring joy and touching smiles to the audience who come to watch.
That is why I decided to take on the challenge of school idol activities more actively.
I will do my best to make you all smile, using the expressive skills I honed in the drama club as my weapon.
I may still have much to learn, but I would be happy if you came to see me as I put in the effort!
Please take care of me.

(nijichizu)
A girl in both the School Idol Club and the Drama Club. A straight-laced star student, but she often loses herself when she starts talking about the theater or her beloved dog.

(idol.st)
background:
Shizuku formerly attended Seiran High School. Along with Kanata Konoe and Emma Verde, she works with the Love Live! School idol festival app. She lives in Kamakura, far from Nijigasaki. Shizuku is an only child, and has a female golden retriever named Ophelia. Shizuku is athletic but she is poor at ball sports and is involved in acting.

personality:
Shizuku is a sweet, polite, level-headed and mature honor student. She is considered a traditional Japanese beauty, and is quite timid at times. Despite her somewhat shy nature, however, she is also friendly and generally cheerful. She's also genuinely selfless and generous, as she offers to all the group to sleep at her home during the trip, and to study together, also helping Kasumi (who has somewhat low grades). As seen in the Niji-Yon 4koma, she likes dogs. Shizuku can be easy to tease, however she is able to stand up for herself and others if teasing goes too far. She can sometimes be observed giving a stern talking-to to Kasumi, someone who is the opposite of Shizuku in terms of maturity. Due to her responsible nature, Shizuku is also inclined to take on too much responsibility and keep her thoughts to herself. She worries about things quite often. Shizuku is passionate about acting, and is very skilled at getting into character. She is also a fan of old movies and novels ever since she was little. However, this passion leaded her to be anxious because she felt she was the only child who liked these things, and due to this she was afraid to be seen as an oddball and be dismissed by her peers. Another trait showing her kindness is that she is supportive yet doesn't want to burden others, a trait she shares with Emma Verde.

(wikipedia)
An honorable first year student and theater club member who was introduced to school idols by her admired senior, she belongs to the international exchange course. Shizuku is one of the five original members of the school idol club, but unintentionally departed as she became devoted to the theater club. She is one of the original N-rarity girls introduced in School Idol Festival; she originally was a Seiran High School student. She is distinguishable by her long brown hair and red ribbon. Shizuku is considered as a yamato nadeshiko, a classical Japanese beauty, and personality-wise she is very level-headed, kind, and mature, and can be probably a bit of a shyness. She comes from a wealthy yet lovely family, and is an only child. Her sweet nature is also seen when she invites all her group at her home during their practice trip. Shizuku is described as a 'junior type school idol' (後輩系スクールアイドル, kōhai-kei sukūru aidoru).


(Official Comment)

August 2017 Ranking Comment (3rd Place)
This is n't a prank, right?
Hahaha. Since I was 6th in the previous round, I was really surprised to suddenly be in 3rd place.
Thank you to everyone who cheered for me! I was so overwhelmed
with surprise and joy that all the lines I worked so hard to memorize for the play last night just vanished.
That's a lie! Woohoo. Ah, but I really am happy.
Even though I am still inexperienced, knowing that there are so many people supporting me
makes me truly happy and gives me great reassurance.
I will do my best to live up to your expectations, even just a little.
Please look forward to it!
September 2017 Ranking Comment (3rd Place)
I did it! I've made it back into the Top 3. My
ranking suddenly jumped last time, so I was worried I might drop next time
. I prayed at a nearby shrine every morning while walking my dog. However, looking at this ranking, I realized that what I should have been doing was not praying to God, but rather training myself more. I am reflecting on this. As
Setsuna and Rina mentioned, you two were properly concretizing the areas for improvement discussed at the reflection meeting.
Of course, I assume you both felt anxious as well, but I lacked the strength to push those feelings away. That is reflected in the ranking.
Starting today, I will relieve my anxiety by running. It helps with physical training too, so it's killing two birds with one stone. I will try even harder, so please continue to watch over me. Please!
March 2019 Special Message (1st Place)
Hehe. It’s the first time I’ve seen you get so flustered, Senpai. Huh? I’m talking about this past April Fool’s Day. Don’t you remember? You came to me looking pale. Saying, "The drama club is getting canceled!" and telling that clumsy lie, I felt like giving it back to you. Hehe, I pictured your face when you were flustered, not knowing that my dejection was just an act♪ Seriously, even if it’s a day when lying is okay, sad lies are forbidden, you know? If you’re going to lie, I wish you’d tell a lie that could make someone happy. Like, "I like you, Senpai..."
October 2019 Special Message (2nd Place)
Beautiful autumn weather. For some reason, it feels easy to get through, and my mood is bright♪ I came today to see a performance I was curious about... and here it is. They say it's a story about a flower girl becoming a magnificent Duchess, but I wonder just how the plot unfolds... ...It was a truly wonderful performance. The way the lead actress transformed from a flower girl into a Duchess was truly breathtaking! She played one role, but as the flower girl and the Duchess, she was like two completely different people. In reality, it was a double role. To portray the process of growing through painstaking effort in such a short amount of time—could I do that? No, I will make sure I can do it someday! I shouldn't let myself get weak. I need to go back right away and write down the parts I can use as reference... Hehe. I always get hooked after watching a play. I should also try to drive my fans crazy during my school idol activities.


(reddit opinion)
A: This was a quite sophisticated "story construction". A recurring daydream or nightmare sequence where Shizuku seems to have a conversation with herself or an inner counterpart of herself who's wearing a mask while accusing Shinzuku of depending too much on her "immaterial" mask, even of being helpless without that mask.

In Ancient Greece actors used to utilize masks onstage, for the sake of different expressions, but also to cover their true faces.

And there are the Three Faces in the Japanese culture: The one you show the world, the one you show only your beloved, and the one you never show anyone else.

RinaShizu refer to both.

Shizuku has a mask to protect herself from getting hurt - and doesn't wanna show the face behind it even to herself. And hates herself for this. Coming up with a stageplay to never insult anyone - this virtually makes her Nijigaku's Kotori.

Rina, who got better at showing her emotions, can relate to that a lot, understandably enough. She also explicitly explains now that Ai got her out of this and also brought her to a safe haven, Niji's idol club. Ai the "manic pixie dream friend".

Kasumi understands that she has to become Shizuku's pixie friend, helping her find her dream. Rina confirms this by refering to Honk: "FIGHTO!!" And it really turns into a verbal fight between KasuShizu, with another SIP reference as climax.

Showing your true colors (hence "Monochrome" in the title) and at the same time keeping on protecting yourself - quite a balancing act. The Niji girls as yet another big safe haven, and here Kasu is the intermediary for Shizu.

Eventually it turns out: Shizuku's daydream-nightmare was the climactic part of her theater play. It mirrored her RL conflicts way too much. Only with the help of Kasu and the other girls she could make it. Perhaps the theater club chairwoman, who turned out to be her counterpart in the play, wanted to trick her into dealing with her problems by telling her someone else is gonna get her role. A quite risky endeavor, like many of Dia's secret actions in Sunshine. The chairwoman's face after Shizuku succeeded supports this hypthesis imo.

And there are again a lot of references, mostly from Madoka Magica again, and is "Audrey" meant to be Audrey Hepburn?

In the climactic stageplay they talk about "the true me" - in contrast to Rin's "the new me". Rin turned herself into an artificial image for the auditory imo, partly on behalf of her friends, whereas Shizuku's friends gave her the advice not to turn herself into something artificial.

Shizuku is now both a popstar and an actress - something that often happens in RL too, doesn't it.

And I gotta say I liked the electric guitar in her insert song.

Next ep: "Friends but Rivals" - the second "double feature" of EmmaKarin, this time with Karin in the spotlight tho. I have a feeling that it might get nasty now...

B: Personally Shizuku is my favourite in Nijigaku, probably my favourite in the whole of Love Live. She's a character I love to cheer for; her efforts to move forward and keep putting herself out there even after her episode are admirable and inspirational. But it really is a personal choice too; I watched Shizuku's episode at a time when I really needed to. I'm autistic, and I found Shizuku's character incredibly relatable, at a time when I felt I couldn't really relate to anyone.

Shizuku before her S1 episode had been consumed by her own mask. She blended in perfectly, never offending anyone but never being notable. I thought she was called Shizuko until her episode lol, because Kasumi was the only person who really talked to her.

But her episode deconstructs all of this brilliantly, showing just how much fear ruled her life and how desperately she tried to run from herself through acting. I've seen people say her fears were silly, that "only" being scared over old films was an anticlimax, but I think you have to look beyond that. Shizuku was scared to be herself, actively hated being herself-- the books and films were just what her self-hatred focused in on.

Kasumi confronting her was the first time someone saw beyond her mask in any way, expressing love for the whole rather than the front. And I like how Shizuku carried that through, too: instead of fighting her shadow in the play like she'd been trying before, she thanks it, treats it with kindness, and eventually combines with it. It was the first time Shizuku treated her whole self with love, and I think the results (via Solitude Rain) were incredible. It's such a powerful song and an excellent summation of her character. Maybe it would've been cool if she quit drama club after this, to show she was really being herself from now on, but I don't mind that she didn't.

I like how she continues to grow after this point, too. She starts goofing around with members, cracking jokes and letting them come to her house, and even works up courage to show her writings to Yu. Mind you, the Beauty and the Beast AU slashfic she chose was... interesting, but it was funny and made her feel more genuine to me. (She's a theatre kid, they're weird like that.) It's funnier when you think she probably chose her most "normal" writing for Yu, lol.

There is one thing I dislike with her, but it's not really in the anime. Sometimes staff treat Shizuku as a "wildcard" character, i.e someone who acts as anyone, but I think that misses what makes her so great. Shizuku is my favourite because she learns her masking is bad, because she chooses to be herself instead of people-pleasing. I found SIFAS (and songs like Koakuma LOVE) focused in on this trait, completely dismissing all the progress she's made. It hasn't happened in the anime yet, and I'm really hoping it doesn't.

C: I get the feeling I'll be writing a very lengthy and very angry essay about Shizuku as soon as I hear spoilers about the movie, so for the time being I'll try to keep things short and civil. 

Back when I got into Niji, that is shortly after SIFAS global came out, I didn't particularly care about Shizuku. Mostly because I wasn't given much of a reason to care, given how little presence she had in the story and how most of her screen time involved her delivering token lines that any character could say, reminding people that she likes acting, or treating Kasumi like a dog. 

Still, her first 3 solo songs were right up my alley and they were easily my favorites from their respective albums, so it's not like I disliked or anything.

Then, the anime came out… And after 7 episodes of giving us the usual Shizuku, it made her go "Did you think I was bland? Acting." And just like that, Shizuku (together with Kasumi) suddenly became my favorite LL character, and her episode became literally the best thing LL has ever done. Now I admit, I do find her struggles quite relatable, so it definitely played a part in me enjoying it this much, but still. 

But as much as I love what the writers did with her here, I feel like they bit way more than they could chew. Shizuku's character arc just isn't something that should be given to a glorified side character, but something more befitting the main character/heroine that can be properly explored over the course of several episodes, like what they did with Ayumu's character arc. Instead, we're led to believe that Kasumi's pep talk just flipped some switch inside of Shizuku's head and magically fixed literally everything that was wrong with her, which is just bad writing. 

I mean, sure, the anime does try to actually show that Shizuku is changing, but be it her personal growth, her relationship with Kasumi, or even the way Kasumi got affected by what happened between them is all handled in a show don't tell way while leaving way too much room for interpretation. 

Let's take a look at the remaining S1 episodes. There are several scenes where we see Shizuku doing something her old self (probably) wouldn't, but I feel like there's a small catch to all of them - in episode 10 we see her cracking silly jokes about Kasumi bombing her midterms and later playing along with Kasumi's prank during the training camp, while in the finale we see her performing in a silly hero show thingy together with Kasumi (and Setsuna), and we also get to see her actually being nice and affectionate towards Kasumi for once, calling her cute and even giving her a thoughtful present even though there was a time she would never praise her and even looked down on her by calling her a self-proclaimed president. 

The catch here seems to be that Shizuku can only be herself around Kasumi and uses her as a crutch of sorts. Or maybe not and it's all just shipbait fanservice or something. We can't know for sure because there's no real introspection to any of this. 

And things only get much more complicated in S2. 

From the first episode we see that Shizuku is suddenly close with Yuu after having no meaningful interactions with her before, calls her 'senpai' even though she never does that with anyone else, and generally takes over Kasumi's role as the designated kouhai. She also seems to have completely lost all interest in Kasumi, who for some reason acts like a perfectly reasonable person about this whole ordeal. 

I'm sorry, did I miss a page? Seriously, watching S2 mostly made me feel like it takes place in some alternate universe where it was Yuu and not Kasumi who played a pivotal role in Shizuku's episode. There's no rhyme or reason to any of it, and the closest thing to context we have seem to be the lyrics of Shizuku's first solo song, which is all about her playing the role of the kouhai who always stays by her senpai's side during the second chapter, or rather asking for permission to play that role. And while this would explain a thing or two, I feel like this raises more questions than it answers and I feel like I'll get a headache just thinking about it. 

Next up is the ending of episode 2, where Shizuku finds out that her 3 closest friends - Kasumi, Rina and Kanata - randomly decided to for a unit with Emma and apparently not a single one of them cares enough about her to let her know about it or worry that they're leaving her out. Shizuku's only reaction is "That's interesting." Does she seriously feel like this has literally nothing to do with her? Or is she actually feeling hurt but bottles it up because she's a 'great actress who doesn't let others see her pain' as she sings in Audrey? Well, who knows? 

Then, we get episode 5 which is straightforward enough and shows that she's actually willing to expose her more unhinged side by writing a glorified SetsuPomu fanfic and making them act it out, which is quite nice, but I don't think this is enough to prove that she's completely over her issues, especially since episode 10 exists. 

Until this point, it feels like Shizuku and Kasumi sort of swapped their roles compared to their S1 selves: Shizuku is doing quite a lot to stand out, actually plays an important role what with being Director Ousaka and whatnot, and spends a lot of time being next to Yuu, aka the person in charge of the club, just like Kasumi used to. Kasumi on the other hand does nothing particularly meaningful during S2 and doesn't really bother to stand out or act like a gremlin. 

But the moment episode 10 starts, they both swap back to their former roles. In Kasumi's case, she slips back into her role of a gremlin who needs to stand out and show off at any cost the moment the new members assume that either Yuu or Setsuna are the club's president, which clearly implies that Kasumi is simply not good enough and makes her desperate to prove them wrong. By showing off Shizuku's house and coming up with some dumb schemes that only keep backfiring on her? 

Shizuku, on the other hand, does absolutely nothing remotely memorable in the episode that takes place in her hometown and her own damn house, being more than happy to stay in Kasumi's shadow and let her play the role of the de facto host. And yes, I'm aware that this is supposed to be Kasumi's episode and that Shizuku was given a chance to show off how much she's changed in episode 5, but I don't think any of it is an excuse not to throw in some short scenes where she shares the things she loves with the other members, like watching one of her favorite movies with them or showing off her collection of novels. 

But none of that happens. Shizuku is simply there, doing the bare minimum expected of her as the actual host, just being a nice girl and not letting anyone learn anything about her that we didn't know about her, which makes me believe that she's not really comfortable about having all these people in her house. 

Another thing worth mentioning here is just how strange her relationship with Kasumi is portrayed here - for most of S2, these two act like they're pretty much strangers, nothing more than fellow club members from the same grade, and you probably wouldn't be able to guess that anything meaningful happened between them in S1 without watching it. This episode doesn't actually change that - the two barely interact save for Shizuku patting Kasumi's head at the end when she's being all pitiful.

But even though Kasumi makes it sound like she's never been to Shizuku's house and has only heard that it happens to be big, the way she acts after they arrive there makes it seem like she's there all the time and treats it as her home away from home - she's all smug seeing how impressed everyone is, shows zero reaction to the fancy food being served there, goes to Shizuku's bedroom in the middle of the night like it's the most natural thing in the world (even though this is apparently the only room that's off limits to Shizuku's guests) and on the 2nd day she's apparently the only character other than Shizuku to wear a different pair of shoes than on day 1 (what).

All of this, combined with Kasumi never trying to get between Yuu and Shizuku mostly makes me feel like they're actually hiding how close they are because… reasons? 

Anyway, then we get episode 11 in which Shizuku never leaves Kasumi's side, being hell-bent on making her pass her midterms even though they were literally none of her business back in S1. Uh, okay? 

Honestly, I could go on and on about how much these two keep getting shafted, but I think this is enough for now. Also, I doubt anyone will actually bother reading all of this anyway. 

Now, I'd love to make some meaningful conclusion here, but the only one I can reach is that it's impossible to reach a meaningful conclusion - we simply have no idea what's going on with Shizuku and we can only make educated guesses at best. 

So maybe I'm overthinking this and all of Shizuku's problems already got resolved in S1. 

Maybe none of it got resolved and she's only acting like she's fine. 

Maybe everything we see in S2 is her going out of her way to challenge herself and grow as a person. 

And don't even get me started on her relationship with Kasumi. There's so much room for interpretation here that seemingly valid interpretations range from "They were never that close in the first place" to "They started dating in secret and are doing an amazing job keeping it that way". The truth is probably somewhere in the middle and is something along the lines of "Shizuku distances herself from Kasumi in order not to rely on her, but makes up for it in private(??)," which is also little more than my headcanon. 

I really want to believe the movie will finally give us some answers, but I'm seriously struggling to be optimistic about it, especially after seeing Shizuku looking like some generic genki idol in her solo song(?). 

(I swear this is the short version of a post I wanted to write.)

D : I generally find that Shizuku is a really well constructed character, but she is paid attention to so less. Not only is her character design iconic and flawless, but her focus episode actually brings her out so well. Her facade of being the perfect get-along student, but still running away from being her true self brings her episode and all the other girls together. We also get to see a side of Kasumi that isn’t the girl that she was before, which was incredibly personal to me for some reason.

In the play between her episode where she battles her own shadow, i love how this was treated in a metaphorical way by the scriptwriters. Shizuku’s self hatred was eventually washed away by her own hands, and when they combined it felt as if she was actually accepting herself. This is the complete reason I love solitude rain so dearly. The lyrics are so well written, which actually weaves into the episode and how Shizuku actually feels inside. One of the lyrics directly translates to (reference towards the Wiki) “there was something inside of me that refused to change, but then I finally realized it.” Shizuku’s despair was presented incredibly well in this whole episode and even better, it was implied in her insert song? I absolutely ADORE being a fan of her.

(personality-database.com opinion)
A: Who typed her as ISTJ? Lmao I'm curious.
With that being said, Shizuku is definitely INFJ and also quite easy to type. She's very creative, yet is very well aware of how to apply her creativity and imagination skills to her goals and is a good planner and well organized, instead of having intuitive momentary and spontaneous bursts. (Ni dom and not Ne). Her Fe aux is also extremely evident, as she's fairly reserved and quiet but very sweet, kind and openly supportive of the others. Tries to please others, literally says "count on me for help" and happily offers her home to let her friends have a place to stay during the trip. Her Ni-Fe main axis is very evident.

B - INFJ: If anyone has any doubt if she uses Fe or Fi, just listen to "Audrey". Her Fe is so evident on this song, saying that she doesn't really get her feelings and is always acting and adapting herself to fit others, like an actress "What does it means to act naturally? Is it different than playing as myself?". Between Si and Ni, i think she uses Ni not just because her songs are full of connotations, but because everything she does is towards her goal of becoming an actress (even her idol career). On "Anata no Risou no Heroine" she says she's bad at ad lib-ing, which could fit inf Se's difficulty in dealing with the moment. About her enneagram, 1 seems right since on both of her songs you can observe how she judges what is good and righteous for her to do, keeping high standards for herself for example wanting to become an ideal heroine. She's such an amazing character.

C: While she is more like a 9 than a 2, she has a 2 wing. The wing is not decided by which of the adjacent types you relate to most; it is a secondary set of thinking strategies to support and complement the core type. In the case of 1s, a 1w9 is oriented toward rules and schedules, not people. Their morals come from within and do not bend to the demands of others. They seek a static, repetitive set of regulations to follow. To the contrary, 1w2s are people-oriented, and their morals are a collation of norms and mores. They are not as strict when it comes to how structures and systems should work. I think it is clear Shizuku fits the traits of the 1w2 better.

Also, how is she 1E? 1Es are emotionally reactive to a degree that is disproportional to the situation, whereas Shizuku is mellow and self-controlled in her emotional expression. I would argue she is 2E in that she is adept in matters of Emotion, adapting and performing in social situations to meet the tribe's needs. As for her first aspect, I would say she is 1V because she has delineated goals for success and achievement that she tackles with more fervor than anything else. 4L is clear in that she harbors little interest in matters of Logic and easily adheres to the input of others on it, which leaves 3F (denoted by her aversion to conflict and inclination to share all of her earnings with others) and ultimately VEFL.

EDIT: It seems FEVL has taken over. FEVLs are lazy, impulsive, hedonistic, and inclined to violence because of 1F and 3V. How is this fitting?

D: Shizuku struggled with her differences from those around her and feared that these differences would isolate her. In order to be loved by those around her, she had long worn the mask of a 'good girl' and played up her 'ideal self' so that everyone would like her. Shizuku's belief that she would not be loved as she was led her to repress her true self, and she became unable to recognise her true feelings.

'I want to be your ideal person, I want to make someone smile' → 'I don't know who I really am, who am I now and what do I think about' →'Acting out is part of who I am, I won't deny it anymore' -> 'I don't want to be someone perfect who isn't me anymore, I won't run away from any heart'

This seems to merge from 2 to 4.    


