
name        : Yu takasaki
kanji       : 高咲 侑
color       : #1d1d1d
mbti        : INTJ(88), INFJ(33), ENFJ(9)

(nijichizu)
Yu is Ayumu Uehara's childhood friend who lives next door in the same apartment complex. She is also the manager and song composer of Nijigasaki High School Idol Club. Seen as reliable and helpful, Yu uses her deep passion for idols to help the other club members achieve their goals.

(idol.st)
background:
Yu is the budding school idol enthusiast of Nijigasaki High School and is often seen with her characteristic thigh-high socks and twin-tails tips dyed green. She is Ayumu Uehara's inseparable childhood friend, having grown up as neighbors in the same apartment building near Odaiba. Eventually, the two of them ended up at Nijigasaki together and are now classmates. Yu's love for school idols blossomed after seeing a performance of the legendary school idol, Setsuna Yuki. Along with Ayumu, Yu's very first experience of school idols that day would lead her to seek out Nijigasaki's School Idol Club.

personality:
Yu adopted a lot of the player character's personality prior to the anime. She is described as insightful, reliable, quick to take action, and very caring of the Nijigasaki idols. She is shown to have a deep passion for idols, which inspires her goals and actions just like her game counterpart. She's shown to be very kind, empathetic and sociable, easily creating bonds with others. She has a passionate and charismatic nature, which easily attracts others. However, her passion for music and putting her efforts in it sometimes makes her neglect her schoolwork

(wikipedia)
Yu is a second year at Nijigasaki High School who has been friends with Ayumu since childhood and lives next to each other. She belongs to the general course, but decided to transfer to the music course later in the anime series. Both Yu and Ayumu fell in love with school idols after seeing Setsuna Yuki's performance and decided to enter Nijigasaki's school idol club upon discovering that Setsuna is a student at their school. Rather than becoming a school idol herself, she decided to support Ayumu and other school idols. Her catchphrase is 'I'm thrilled!' (ときめいた!) and 'I can't choose just one!' (ヒトリダケナンテエラベナイヨー). Despite being the group's manager and not an idol her-self, her charismatic and supportive nature easily attract others and make them interested in idols. Yu is the anime equivalent of the Love Live! School Idol Festival All Stars' protagonist. Her name was decided through fan votes.[8] Yu made her first in-game appearance in School Idol Festival 2 Miracle Live!. In All Stars, the protagonist becomes interested in school idols after seeing a joint live between μ's and Aqours but after looking for a related club in Nijigasaki, they learned that the existing school idol club is on its last legs of survival and decides to rebuild and reform the school idol club. Unlike Yu, All Stars' protagonist belongs to the music course from the start and already owns a keyboard in their home. The protagonist acts as the manager and song composer for the rest of the members. The protagonist's gender is left vague in the Japanese version, but is referred as 'she' in the English version due to the language limitation in third person pronoun. The protagonist is nameable, but is generally referred as 'You' (「あなた」, 'Anata') by other members.

(reddit opinion)

A: As for my own thoughts on Yu, I like her a lot! Her existence as a character is very interesting and completely unique to Love Live: despite being in every episode, both openings and endings, and almost all official merch, she doesn't sing. I avoid the words "not an idol" there, because despite not singing she performs on stage and seems to be considered an "honorary idol" by the other girls. If you were completely new to Love Live and just binging through the shows, you'd have to wonder: why?

The reason is, of course, SIFAS. Reading through the SIFAS story it definitely never felt like it was "me" saying all that player dialogue haha, their decisions and thoughts were wildly different to mine and often a lot smarter lol. I can see why the player character got the name "Anata" even then, they really did feel like a character in their own right.

Not to mention the character connection with Ayumu. This could be controversial, but I sometimes feel Yu only made it into Nijigasaki because of Ayumu. Ayumu is characterised as Yu's childhood friend; even more so as "Anata's" in SIFAS. I think if you removed that from Ayumu, her (at least initial) personality and motivations would vanish, and she'd be a bit of a nothing-character. I think everything else Yu did-- solving the Setsuna-Kasumi dispute, re-establishing the club-- could have been written out, the anime was always going to be a different story anyway. But a character being Ayumu's childhood friend was essential, and I guess they didn't want any more idols, so Yu it is.

Not that I want Yu's story to be written out, because I do really like her! Yu's enthusiasm is infectious, and although I was wary of her being a self-insert character she receives plenty of characterisation and charm. Much of it was actually through Mia, in retrospect: by having a talented composer enter the scene, Yu's desire to learn piano was challenged, and she rose quite well to it. Also as much as she says she "can't just choose one" I think she absolutely plays favourites lol: it's pretty clear to me Ayumu's her #1, followed by Setsuna, then Kasumi. Beyond that point sure she likes all the others the same, but I really get the impression those girls are her top 3.

B: Finally, it’s time for the girl at the heart of it all. There’s so much to say about her. Takasaki Yu brings together everything wonderful and unique about Nijigasaki. Through her, all of the other girls get to shine in their own way!

Season one of Nijigasaki revolves around Yu essentially collecting the other girls to add to the idol club. I really enjoy how everyone respects Yu’s decision to not be an idol herself, it’s a very mature decision! There’s not too much to say about her development that isn’t rather obvious. Because we get to follow her around most of the time, a lot of Yu’s character and development is shown at the forefront.

Speaking of, one of Yu’s roles is to act as an audience surrogate. Especially because she’s not an idol. This, in and of itself, is a nice design choice. Yu’s origin is to specifically BE that audience surrogate, that bridge to allow us to see the rest of the girls.

When moving into season two, we get to actually see some growth for Yu as well! She decides to follow her new dream of being a composer so that she can support the rest of the girls as much as possible.

Her journey over the course of the show really breathes some life into her character and pushes her beyond “oh this is just the viewer”. I really enjoy that they decided to really develop her this way.

I sort of have to talk about her inspiration from SIFAS. “Anata” was literally the audience surrogate there, and I don’t really know how much of a character she was given (haven’t played it), but it really feels like Yu embodies the best parts of Anata and adds some more to her. Also, whoever came up with the name Yu deserves a medal.

Her relationships with the rest of the girls is surprisingly intricate. The show goes out of its way to try to develop Yu’s interactions with a lot of the cast, somewhat at the expense of having more interactions between other characters. But by the end of season two, Yu gets her own recognition from all of the girls for how hard she works for them, and I think that’s very sweet.

One last thing I’d like to mention is her color choice. Yu’s color is black, which more than anything represents her as being the “shadow” behind all of the other idols. I do sort of wish they managed to include some elements of her green-tipped twin tails though…

TLDR: 20/10 for the invisible centerpiece of Nijigasaki. YuPomu SSS-tier ship, Hinaki-Chan does a phenomenal job.

HITORI DAKE NANTE ERABENAI YO!!!

C: he only character that does not sing of the club, but still important for the group, Yu is definitely a relatable character in so many ways, which fits given the context that she was supposed to fit the role of “Anata”, with her own charm and traits, I do love her as a character. Her positive and energetic personality, her devotion towards the idols and how easy she gets hyped up by them, are one of the things I like the most, I definitely felt like her the moment I saw CHASE! through her perspective, and the fact that she binged a lot of idol content during that night was definitely a nice touch for me since I did something similar before watching the show, and her sleepy state during the morning is such a mood, such a unique and relatable character, they definitely did a great job with her.

I also like how they fleshed her out on the anime, being the supporter/manager sort of character, in S1, helping Ayumu chase(!) her dreams (with you), aiding Kasumi and Setsuna to solve the club issue, interacting with Ai and her puns, or how seriously she took managing the schedule of the first SIF, she is never really the focus of the episodes, but she’s a really important piece of the puzzle nonetheless, being the one that can make everyone shine brighter than individually.

And S2 did a greater job adding growth to her, how she went to chase her own goals with the piano to help the club, being tested by Lanzhu and Mia and overcoming their challenges, as well as finding the courage to tell Ayumu with the aid of Kanata (on both sides) about her path towards her dreams knowing what happened in S1, how she played an important role in helping Shizuku create a unit, and the scene where she couldn’t find her inspiration to compose, that was for sure my favourite moment of her during the series, that must have been for real a bad experience of she had to do all that kind of exercise.

Overall, I think they really did a great job incorporating a character that’s not supposed to sing but aid, definitely a unique concept they implemented in comparison to the previous series, which despite the fact I watched them later than Nijigasaki ,that just made me appreciate her more and more.

Looking forward to μ’s turn, thanks for all the time you dedicated to Niji’s discussions!

D: 
Just gonna copy something I said in some other thread somewhat recently about why she's my favorite:

Yu is the best audience stand in character in anything I've seen. Love Live as a franchise has always operated on a very romanticized and sanitized view of idol stuff, and having a character that effectively grounds the fan experience in a relatable way adds a lot to the formula. Especially for Niji which feels like a celebration of the franchise's most fun and wholesome aspects.

The music and characters are supposed to be inspirational. Yu's arc of being inspired by everyone to want to get into composition and ultimately finding that she's loved for her efforts is very nice and a great allegory for the experience of someone engaging with a franchise like this. The moment at the end of S2 where she gets a bit of fan mail is absolutely beautiful.

Yu may be me, but she still feels like her own character. Her enthusiasm is as infectious as it is really dang cute.

(personality-database.com opinion)

A: She is so Ni dom that it's even viable to think they used MBTI to write about her. She is described many times during the game as someone insightful and good at taking action. Since the beginning of the game everything that moves her towards all of her objectives are her insights. Since the first time she watched u's and Aqours' live she had a realization about how much she was passionated about it which indicates Ni-Fi. The way she plans along with Kasumi to reunite the club members is very NiTe, they keep narrowing options to take the most objective course of actions to reach their wished goal. Whenever Yu meets a new member she fits them into her big picture idealization of how the group should be. After the group is complete Yuu considers the possibility of all of them acting as a group instead of each member as an individual part, and until then i was considering INFJ as well but if she was an INFJ she would've adapted her views to the group's members and payed more attention to how they felt, but instead she idealized her own view with her own values about idols (Ni-Fi) and by doing so she failed to see the members. Later she had an insight about how even if they worked hard for it, it was just her making the idols fit into her idealization and failing to express themselves and their individualities (Chapter 2 episode 9). Another time in which her use of TeFi instead of FeTi is visible is when she is competing against Maki as a song writer and spend all her time focused only on analyzing µ's songs (and ignoring all her bodily needs which indicates high preference over an intuitive function instead of a sensorial one) and seeing what it lacked so she could write her own perfect song, which she almost did but again failed in one thing: looking at the group. The song she managed to write was extremely good besides that it wasn't a song made exclusively for the Nijigasaki girls, which was the reason why she lost. During the moment when she was seeing Maki play you can also notice her Ni in action, having insights that goes on and on about the song even to the point of getting totally disconnected from the present moment. For her to understand why she failed, she had to contact Maki (another INTJ) to ask how she composed her songs so only them she could understand that she had ignored the group and aimed to correct her flaw. Her Te becomes extremely evident whenever she tries to take action, looking for the most objective course of action on step-by-step searching for results, which can be seem very clearly on Chapter 7 episode 9 when she doesn't simply accept that the School Idol Festival is cancelled and imediatelly gets into action searching for info and ways to change the outcome.About the enneagram, Yu is always searching for knowledge to be useful to the idols, she wants to be competent and help them reach their goals and when she stress the most is when she feels helpless and incapable of doing something to reach her goals. She has a clear wing 4 since she is always searching for her group's individuality and expression towards music. Tritype 521.

B - INTJ: Taking both the game and the anime in count i think we can all agree that her Ni is extremely strong. As from my interpretation in the anime, the idols' performance always changes scenarios and clothes because they are being seen by Yu's eyes, which is implicit on the first episode where she is affected by the scenario "created" by Setsuna's song. Everything changes because she looks at them through the simbolism they represent and for their potential and underlying feelings. It's Yu's perspective through her Ni. Another very good example of her use of Ni is during episode 3, when after talking with Setsuna on the music room, when later questioned on how she knew about her true identity she answers: "Even if the others told me, i already had a feeling that this was the case" basically showing to have grasp a deeper meaning and understanding of the situation but still not being able to concrectly put it into words. As for Te-Fi or Fe-Ti, i see that the INFJ votes are increasing since the anime came out but no one is really providing any explanation, am i missing something? I still have my doubts about her auxiliary and tertiary function, even though i think that her passion for idols seems to be some signs of Fi. Any comments?

C - ISFP: I haven't read the game's chapters but I'm pretty sure her anime version is - unpopular opinion warning - ISFP.

The way she just decides to plunge into the idol world immediately after seeing one live performance and a few videos, without any specific reasons apart from 'idols are so cute and cool!' is very Fi-Se. She's driven by something she values and wants to enjoy it in the moment – that's the core of her anime personality.
Her Ni is present, but I wouldn't call it too strong here: she's focused on having fun in the 'now' and seriously considers her own future & dreams only closer to the end of the show + uses Setsuna's (Ni aux) help to draft a coherent festival plan, which is something a Ni-Te would usually have no problem doing on their own. (Besides, a suggestion to use multiple venues is unlikely to come from a Te-aux, who are focused on achieving efficiency with minimum resources.) More than dominant Ni, I see a Fi-Se-Ni synergy in her perspective of live-shows, too: she doesn't form some original, seemingly out-of-nowhere vision in her head, but rather has a very acute perception of real-time sensory information, further enhanced by her adoration of idols.

When she tries to convince Setsuna to keep being an idol, she appeals to her through her Fi. Compared to more accommodating Fe that relies on common, more on-the-surface patterns, a strong Fi can help to deeply understand and relate to individual feelings and issues. "If Love Live stresses you out, then don't participate in it and just have fun, for you and your fans!" is a very Fi-Se thing to say. A Ni-Te would've most likely tried to drive it home to her that she had enough potential to participate and get decent results while a Ni-Fe would've probably tried consoling her and suggested to wait and see if she reconsidered – and both would've gotten nowhere with that.

The 'conflict' with Ayumu would've been a lot more heated, had she been an INTJ, I believe. Aux Te is quite confrontational in general and wouldn't be able to stay silent after hearing "You promised to see this dream through with me, so I don't want to hear it [=*your* dream]". The word 'selfish' would've been said at least once, and not in Ayumu’s own head. But Yu's strong, healthy Fi is why she's more confused than hurt and/or angry: she genuinely wants to know what feelings drove Ayumu to such words/actions and she's patiently treading until she can understand the motives and they properly talk it all out.




