name        : Eli Ayase
kanji       : 絢瀬 絵里
color       : #7aeeff
mbti        : ENTJ(191), ESTJ(94)

(idol.st)
background:
Eli is partly Russian from her grandmother. Because of this, she is known to say the Russian word "хорошо" (pronounced as "Harasho"), which means "Good" or "Okay." Eli first said it in Season 1 Episode 10 when Umi Sonoda was awoken by the girls' pillow fight and she threw "supersonic pillows" in her rage.
She has a younger sister named Alisa Ayase. She told Umi that her family has been living abroad since they were little and haven't really adapted to the lifestyle in Japan yet. Her grandmother is also an alumni of Otonokizaka High School, which furthered her urge to defend her school from getting shut down.
In Season 1 Episode 7, it is shown that her mother and grandmother did ballet through the glimpse of the photos in her room, and it's a legacy passed down to Eli as she was also a ballet dancer herself when she was younger. However, it is later revealed that Eli was actually at the bottom of the list in ballet compared to the other dancers and could barely pass the auditions. Due to her constant failures, she gave up her dream of becoming a ballet dancer and gradually tried to close her heart and distance herself from her dream to shine and dance again. Her experience with ballet qualifies her as the group's choreographer.
Eli was Otonokizaka High School's student council president before Honoka succeeded the position.

personality:
Eli is shown to be a perfect role model to the students in Otonokizaka High School. As the former student council president, she is often portrayed as a cold and strict character due to her responsibilities and being against the idea of Honoka Kosaka and her friends forming an idol group to get more attention from the public. However, ironically, Nozomi Tojo reveals that Eli was also trying to save the school but was denied permission to take action by the chairwoman.
Eli is highly respected and well-known among the students, especially among her juniors, which call her 'Eli-senpai'. Unlike Nozomi, she appears rather stoic and skeptical in the early episodes, but it is shown that Eli is actually very kind and caring towards people who are close to her, like her little sister. She is also dependable as her grandmother entrusted her the responsibility of preventing the school from being shut down. Other than being admirable, Eli also has a lot of fans in the school. After she joined the group, their popularity rose and their ranking among the school idols increased, achieving more fame.
Honoka also complimented her beauty, saying that she is beautiful, tall, and has a great body shape. On top of that, she is also very mature and level-headed and acts as a strategist in promoting their group, as she planned to introduce μ's in Akihabara by having a street performance.
Despite being portrayed as level-headed, Eli can sometimes have an unexpected side to her, and it was revealed by Nozomi that she almost ate a plastic chocolate once, thinking it was real. Other source material such as the Love Live! School idol diary and animated shorts also show her with a more playful personality. She is also afraid of the dark and haunted-house monsters, as seen in Season 2 Episode 12. This is also shown in the Love Live All Stars game.

(namu.wiki)

introduction:
Hi~! Are you having fun with life? If you happen to get even a little bit bored, let's have some fun together. I'm Ayase Eli, 17 years old. I've never learned to sing or dance... but I'm naturally good with my hands, so I'll get better and better from now on; you can look forward to it. I've rarely taken things seriously until now, but this time, I think I can finally take it to the fullest and be truly serious.

(wikipedia)
Eli is Otonokizaka Academy's third-year student council president who is determined to save the school. Although she opposes Honoka's plan at first, she ends up becoming the second-to-last girl to join μ's. She is part Russian because of her grandma, and tends to say the Russian word "хорошо" ([xərɐˈʂo]; pronounced harasho, "good"). She is very talented, excelling at academics and athleticion, and is able to perform her duties as the student council president flawlessly. Eli's specialty is quilting. Her experience with ballet ultimately qualifies her as the group's choreographer

(reddit opinion)

A: Harasho! It’s time for our favorite blonde of the Baltic.
Eli is a girl with a lot of emotions, but doesn’t express them very easily. In that way, she’s a lot like Maki or Nico. But while those two get very tsun-tsun, Eli becomes far more cold and standoffish. I like to imagine that this is because of her childhood, but it’s great to see how her joining Mu’s allowed her to express herself far better.
I think that a lot of Eli’s internal conflict in season 1 came from trying to reconcile her past with her future with Mu’s. I’m sure many people can relate to being afraid of trying things because you failed in the past. But once she does begin to open up and enjoy herself, she becomes a wonderful part of the group.
Her main arc in season 2 more comes down to the student council succession, but it’s not as important. It’s still great to see her, and her relationship with Alisa is very cute.
Of course, I can’t really talk about Eli without mentioning Nozomi. Nozomi completes Eli’s character, being the soft-spoken but emotionally wise counterpart to Eli’s harder exterior. I think that there’s probably a lot of character development that Eli went through over her first two years at Otonokizaka because of Nozomi, we just don’t really see it.
Anyway, NozoEli was the first ship I discovered, and maybe the thing that got me into Love Live in the first place. They work so well together, and Garasu no Hanazono is one of the least straight things I have had the pleasure of listening to (not to mention that one mv…). While it is not my all-time favorite LL ship, it is on the level of RinPana where I just think “oh yeah, that’s canon. They’re together.”
Eli brings a wonderful sense of order and process to Mu’s, but still knows how to enjoy things and care for everyone. Mu’s, and the entire show as a whole, would not be the same without her.
TLDR: 100/10 for the Harasho girl. NanjoIno has a beautiful voice. NozoEli legendary Z-tier ship. It’s canon. If you think otherwise you are just objectively wrong.

B: I don't have much personal thoughts on Eli, but I will say she has an amazing voice. Soldier Game is my favourite from μ's, it has all 3 of my favourite singers together. Garasu no Hanazono is another great gay one, she works really well with Nozomi there too in multiple ways.
I do feel her personality was a little all-over-the-place, though. I felt there was such a big gap between the strict cold Eli-before-μ's and the goofy cutesy Eli-in-μ's, it was almost hard for me to reconcile the two. I never really saw the latter break through before Eli joined μ's either, despite Nozomi implying she was always like that. Her background as a curt, strictly-raised ballerina was cool, but I felt it never went anywhere. Maybe she could have entered a contest again in S2, like Riko doing a piano tournament in S1? That would have been cool growth for her.
That being said, I do like both sides of Eli, so I don't really have any complaints. I just wish her plot "movement" was clearer, so to speak.

C: While I’m honestly a bit biased because of her seiyuu, NanjoIno, for a character she voiced in another series, she was one of the characters that caught my interest by her design, and later on, by her songs.
Initially I found it hard to be interested in her as a character, with how strict and close minded she was, forbidding the girls from forming the club, and her background of the why she was getting in their way, while I felt related to her unnecessarily loafing with all the responsibility and burden all by herself, it did not change my perspective on her, and I do feel like her ballerina past could have had so much development potential, but maybe μ’s disbanding may have been a factor on why it’s wasn’t touched further? Not sure nor I will ever know, so I won’t dwell further. The gap between her strict side and her idol side caught me off guard, it was hard to expect since we haven’t seen much about her other side until Honoka invited her, which was in Ep8/9 if my memory doesn’t fail me. I did start liking her more after that, although she really does care for the school and the club, her Harasho were a nice touch and it was fun to see how Nico attempting to be the cutest maid was just outclassed by Eli’s sheer beauty.
Her relationship with Nozomi during S1 was also intriguing, how they seem opposites in terms of behaviour but complement each other really well, and I do like how they implemented her “Senpai Kinshi” phrase they said as seiyuus into the anime.
As much as I like and respect her tho, unfortunately I don’t have much more to add, possibly because she doesn’t really stand out too much as it’s usually focused around either Honoka or the group in general.
I definitely like her music tho, Arifureta Kanashimi no Hate is my favourite song and soldier game is also a banger

D: and Eli's ballet flashback during her first training unit with Muse is basically exactly the same. Her flashback makes her act harsher than necessary. The setting and music however kinda conceals it and it takes until her full implosion a few frames later before the true extent becomes clear. Trope name: "Red Herring".
And in LL are several examples. Most famously Kanan manages to transform her flashback into something better, in "Young Dreamer"... Eli and others too in the early stages of their arcs still need to learn and train this...
That's where Tsunderes like Eli got their "Tsundere fuel" from. Eli a foreigner like Asuka Soryu who's often called "the" Tsundere.
And "Tsundere" means that a most vulnerable sore point's hidden and protected inside by the "fiery shell". Eli's behavior hints this for example before "Snow Halation" when Tsubasa confronts her with "We ain't gonna lose!", a signature phrasing of a LL villian (albeit rather of the "Friendly Enemy" type and trope pretty soon).
Due to the blizzard the "Honk trio" hasn't arrived yet, and so Eli's "in charge" for she's the "most natural" authority if Honk's not there.
But without someone like Honk she's a "defective leader".
This is also shown when Eli's delivering her "narcoleptic speech" - Alisa, her little sister, then starts pointing out the mistakes in said speech. Alisa even comforts an anxious Eli (who's under yet another flashback due to the blizzard) before Snow Halation. She once experienced a nervous little Eli in the ballet world (an "area" within idol hell), when she herself was even littler.
Which is quite saying something. The Ayase sisters invented the "power sisters" arc, one of LL's signature arcs.
Eli's part in it: Helping Alisa with Japan's special(ized) vending machines.
So despite her angry side Eli's capable of a kind demeanor even before her turning point.
A reason why Yukiho stays so often overnight at Ayases's (we saw her in Alisa's room with a bag)?
Even at the airport in the SIM Yukiho was staying by Alisa's side and together they saw Eli off.
So is Eli maybe even Yukiho's surrogate sis (like Kanan to Chika in the past), albeit offscreen (and thus knows about the Kosaka household a little bit)? Honk always orders her to "bring tea", and their mom tends to throw stuff while throwing the newest tandrum, we saw that too - so to Yukiho the Ayase household seems still to be a save haven for short breathers.
And maybe that's the true reason Yukiho was trying to get into UTX - she wanted to stay in the dorm there... which means Arise would soon get to hear from a teacher or school council member: "Oh btw did you know the little sis of the Muse leader once tried to become a UTX student...?"
So Eli needed someone who could fully activate her strengths. And Nozomi would organize an encounter with Muse and Honk, who as a symbiosis of "manic pixie dream girl" × "magnetic hero" is perfectly equiped for such tasks.
The first one of LL's "genki orange haired leaders" ("inverted" by Ayumu tho).
But in her 1st year Eli didn't have such friends. And Nozomi (and also principal Minami) were not yet prepared for catching her.
I'd even say Eli sabotaged already Nico's 1st year idol attempt.
Were EliNico even standing before UTX's screen that featured the newly founded Arise? Nico enchanted like Pana later, and Eli as sceptical als Rin? Rin was reminded by the idols of her traumatic bullying experiences due to her "non-feminine" appearance (speaking of flashbacks again; Rin would vent it "Tiger-style" against Nico in "The New Me"), Eli was reminded of her ballet past - and vented it against Nico...
Their ship imploded, and two years later Nico still would cut out Eli's face from posters. Their ship would never truly recover. Eli had already found Nozomi, and Nico would find Maki.
Sheds a new light also on YouHane holding hands after the second paper plane scene. So ChikaYou and RiHane ended for good, paralleling EliNico's end...
But has Nico been frequently talking about Eli in her fanmail to Arise since her 1st year? Then Tsubasa would indeed have gotten one helluva "good head start" of Muse knowledge...
Eli my fav girl, but imo also objectively a most interesting and well-written characters.
Let me conclude by posting the one and only "Walz of the Flowers" from Tchaikovsky's "Nutcracker", that became Eli's ballet contest tune. "A tough nut to crack" - Eli follows into the footsteps also of Homura Akemi and her "Nutcracker witch form" in "Madoka Rebellion". And Tchaikovsky was chosen for a reason: He was gay in the 19th century. And still today there are not too many save havens. A frequent fan debate: Do the LL ships emigrate once they're grown so they can marry...?

E: Eli is one of the few characters who did need to grow on me, not that I ever disliked her though.
Her story arc in SIP made no sense to me when I saw it for the first time and I still think that it is one of the weakest for that series. I also didn't find her personality as engaging as that of other members.
After several rewatches of SIP I did develop kind of a soft spot for her though, her story arc really requires you to get into her mindset and see things from her perspective, but it does work, especially if you take manga stuff into account.
And she really does have her cute moments too.