
name        : Hanayo Koizumi
kanji       : 小泉 花陽
color       : #6ae673 
mbti        : ISFJ(190), INFP(14)

(idol.st)
background:
Since they were children, Hanayo has been best friends with Rin Hoshizora, who has always said that Hanayo wanted to be an idol as her mother used to be in the past. She lives with her father, mother, grandfather and her grandmother, and is a caretaker for the school's alpacas.

personality:
Hanayo is a very shy, quiet character who doesn't normally voice her opinions. She is very reserved and will often let other people make decisions for her because of this. Hanayo is also easily scared. However, she has a very passionate side, and her behavior changes when it comes to school idols and anything related, as she is very enthusiastic about them. She doesn't usually state her desires either, so when she wanted to become an idol she didn't say so for a while and needed a push from both Maki and Rin to become one. Despite her timid nature, she is genuinely sweet and kind-hearted, and is considerate towards her friends and their feelings, similar to Kotori Minami.

Hanayo loves to eat anything, especially rice balls. For that reason, she usually gets upset with her weight, as shown in Season 2 Episode 7.

(namu.wiki)

introduction:
Um... excuse me. I'm Koizumi Hanayo, 15 years old. The members call me Kayochin. Um... and, uh... what should I do? I got nervous. I... I'm sorry. Phew... Ha, deep breath, deep breath. Hanayo really likes listening to others talk, but she's not very good at doing it... If it's okay with even a Hanayo like this, I want to sing my heart out for you.


(wikipedia)
Hanayo is a first-year student interested in drawing and origami. She is Rin’s close friend. Rin refers to her as "Kayo", an alternate reading of the kanji in her name. She has a fondness for rice and eating in general, and is natural, shy. Prior to joining μ's, she had poor self-esteem and was prone to giving up easily. She has dream about being an idol since she was a baby and her catchphrase is, "Somebody, please help me!" or a variation depending on the media. Nico later chooses Hanayo to succeed as the president of the Idol Research Club after she and the other third-year members graduated.

(reddit opinion)

A: I always saw her as the "normal" girl in the group. And I actually love her for that. Yeah, she's shy, awkward, introverted, out of shape and obsessed with idols as op mentioned. I feel like a lot of people watching the anime can easily relate to her. And then seeing this "normal", relatable girl go out there despite her fears and insecurities and make her dream come true, was honestly very inspiring. Hanayo shows that everyone can shine. Even if you think of yourself as ordinary. Even if you feel like you're not talented or special enough. In the end, we all can find our shine and work towards our dreams. And for that reason, Hanayo used to be my favorite μ's girl for a while. Maybe I should start paying more attention to her again, now that I think about it.

B:Kayo-chin is a funny one for me. She didn't really leave that much of an impression when I watched, but if you ask me "what do you think of Hanayo?" I'll be like oh yeah, she's pretty good! Solid growth, lots of personality, strong enjoyable relationships, a great character to cheer for.

But then I kinda forget about her a lot lol. I feel she's supposed to be a bit of an "average anime audience" surrogate-- she's out of shape, introverted, painfully shy, but obsessed with anime and idols-- so I might have struggled to see her characterization while I watched. Overall I think I was too harsh on her for this though, she fits in really well with the group as a whole. Especially the 1st years, her relationship with Rin and Maki is really sweet. Obviously she's closer to the former but I really think she helps Maki come out of herself a bit too, she's a great voice of reason to them both.

C:Dare Ga Tasukete! It’s Hanayo time.

Koizumi Hanayo is a wonderful example of how you don’t need to be over the top and explicit with your characters in order to make them memorable, well-developed and enjoyable! While yes, she is quite nerdy about idols, most of Hanayo’s screentime has her in the background, but she’s okay with that.

Hanayo is the kind of girl who’s okay with not being the most popular, or most well-liked. She just wants to have a good time with her friends and be an idol. Her journey over the first season is definitely more subtle than the other girls, especially after she joins Mu’s.

Hanayo, at the start of the show, is a very timid and shy girl who really only ever opens up to Rin, if at all. Rin thankfully knows her well enough to bring her to Mu’s and get her to join them. What I really enjoy about the MakiRinPana episode is that Hanayo also understands Rin’s feelings. Her first real showing of initiative is when she gets Rin to join Mu’s with her.

Hanayo is willing to (occasionally) take initiative for others, especially the ones she cares about, but is often too shy or timid to do things for herself. Whereas Maki or Rin sometimes have it the other way around. By the time the Love Wing Bell episode comes around, we start to see how Hanayo’s developed a bit of resolve for herself. Not only does she understand what Rin wants to do (despite Rin’s outward insistence otherwise), she takes action for the both of them in setting up the entire dress event, and making sure Rin has the chance to lead practices.

This isn’t Hanayo getting away from responsibilities, this is her realizing that Rin needs to do this, and making sure that she doesn’t take it away from her.

Hanayo’s relationships with the other girls unfortunately doesn’t get very much screentime. We know she greatly looks up to the upperclassmen, but aside from the camping episode and the brief jogging bit with Honoka, we don’t get very much time for her to just be with the other girls. Even so, it’s always great to see her.

We can mostly boil it down to her interactions with the other first years. I said this in her character discussion, but Maki’s tsundere, or aloof attitude towards many things often goes too far on Hanayo, since she’s a very sincere person. But Hanayo is also one of the first girls to truly catch on to how Maki is feeling. In this way, I think Hanayo is a lot like Nozomi or Kotori. I’m sure Maki has a soft spot in her heart for both Hanayo and Rin.

But of course, we have her pair with Rin. Again, I talked about it in the Rin discussion, but the two fit together so naturally. Hanayo and Rin are very much an opposites-attract sort of situation on the surface, but deep down I think they’re a bit more similar than you might think. Their mutual understanding, and general interactions are always incredibly fun to watch, and it’s very easy to believe they’ve known each other their whole lives.

As a final note, Hanayo’s love of rice is amazing. I, too, am a rice enjoyer and I wish I had easy access to as much rice as she does.

TLDR: 73/10 for the rice girl. RinPana Legendary Z-tier ship, the only canon(?) ship in the franchise. Kubotan does a stellar job voicing her.

Quick Japanese lesson for anyone interested: why Rin calls Hanayo “Kayo-chin”. The “chin” is just a cutesy honorific, but the “Hana” character in Hanayo’s name “花” can also be read as “Ka” (at least in names). So when Rin was younger, she misread Hanayo as Kayo, and the nickname stuck between the two of them. Also, why does Hanayo sometimes get shortened to Pana, like in RinPana? In Japanese, sometimes (it’s complicated) compound nouns have the second noun’s first character become voiced. For example, “Hana” meaning nose, and “Chi” meaning blood, becomes “Hanaji”, nosebleed. So sometimes the “Ha” sound becomes “Ba”, but in this case (after an “n”) it becomes “Pa”, so “Rin” + “Hana” becomes RinPana. Look up “Rendaku” to learn more!

D: I think Hanayo in the first four episodes is a phenomenonal character. Her struggles with her wanting to be an idol, as well as her trying to help Rin and Maki realize their desires, is so wonderfully done. She then, obviously, gets thrust to the sidelines for most of the rest of the series. But... I think that's fine. I tend to be drawn to characters like her, Kanan, Emma, etc. whi often get criticized for a lack of screentime, but I don't think every character needs as much screentime as everyone else. They're neat characters, and when they get their moments, they hit. Hanayo returning the same push Rin gave her a whole season ago is one of my favorite moments in the franchise, and shows how much the two care about each other. And as a Rin oshi, I love that.

Anyway they took away her glasses shit character

E: Hanayo may not be the flashiest of the characters of μ´s, or in general, but I think it´s completely fine and gives her a unique charm on her own, she is an average girl who´s shy and introverted but has an undeniable passion and devotion for the things she likes, be it idols which can lit up a fire in her soul or rice that she must have in order to have a proper meal as seen in the movie, she just knows her priorities and I like that about her. One of my most memorable moments from her is how despite she gets dragged around by Rin in the first episodes so she can try new things, and how loud she must have screamed her famous line, she still can find the willpower to run towards her objectives as we saw in the first START:DASH!! episode, how she was the first one that attended the empty room ehich gave Honoka the reason to start their performance, and I highly respect her for that.

She´s has a hard time getting involved with people, but when she joined μ´s, she loosens up and gets to have fun with the group. One does not need to have any particular talent to be able to enjoying being an idol and having fun with the fellows.

I do find her personality quite enjoyable, she´s overall calm, but whenever you pull one of her triggers she can fire up as much as Setsuna does with anime, and whle that trope gets repeated across the groups, it´s one I never find myself getting bothered from.

Her relationship with other is also awesome, specally with the first years, she knows Rin full well and viceversa as I stated in Rin´s discussion, Rin knew she really wanted to join μ´s so she, along with Maki, drag her to join the group, and later on Hanayo gives Rin the push that made her overcome her struggles back, complementing each other so well. And I do agree with what u/isaac176 said, despite them having really different personalities, they do have quite a few things in common. Maybe that´s what make polar opposite personalities stick together so well? And with Maki, while her tsndere personality really puts her on edge, deep down they both care about each other, as shown throughout the series.

With her senpais we don´t get to see too much, but I do love how she and Honoka had their fun in the diet regimen episode, in which no matter how committed she was to being in shape, a good bowl of rice is not something she can resist. And as for Nico, even if it´s not that noticeable, I do find cute how Nico actually does respect her for her deviotion to idols as Nico herself named her the next president and if I´m not mistaken allowed her to watch her most preciated dvd, that was a great display of appreciation towards Hanayo. Unfortunately we don´t get to see much more about her.

狐独なHeaven is my favourite song of Hanayo, I really like the rhythm it has.

F: Hanayo the timid girl who defrosts in an instant once shool idols show up.

Hanayo the one who's "magnetism" would pull RinMaki into Muse. The "magnetic hero" as side character.

Hanayo who, during "pulling" Maki, receives some singing training from said Maki who manages to now also make Hanayo's voice defrost.

And Hanayo who puts off her glasses before entering stage (actually a pity, there are many great performers with glasses).

The latter two aspects might be references to older movies:

Sister Act's famous "defrosting by singing" - and Mary Clarence is the one who makes Mary Roberts take over the conductor job in the first place. Pretty similar to Hanayo "activating" Maki who only then giver her the first lesson...

"Dead Ringer The Movie" climax - Marvin who never talks and only defrosts when he sings "Bat Out Of Hell". Meat Loaf tricks im into singing it onstage.... and Marvin defrosts and also wears are stage costume but no glasses... (it was supposed to be a promo film for Dead Ringer, the successor album to Bat).

Kotori's escape arc made me already go "wait a minute..." Hanayo's first singing lesson then would remind me only of Sister Act first, for I didn't know the Dead Ringer movie yet (I knew it existed, but I didn't yet know the content).

And once I did I was like "...ok..."

But actually it's the "Fish Out Of Water" trope, or evn the "Fish back into his home water" variation.

It's also Harry Potter's umbrella arc, isn't it. Harry Potter with glasses and certain friends who push him at times.

And with a messenger owl. Whom LL would later refer to as well.

LL that at the same time abandones magic and replaces it with music (even though a full rollback would happen in GnY; and also in the main anime canon magic would re-enter through the backdoor at times).

And Hanayo's one of those revived by the magic of music.

(personality-database.com opinion)

A - ISFJ: While I can totally see the 2w1 argument,I'd like to make a case for 9w1 Hanayo. Before starting,I am very much open to debate and discussion as long as it is civil!!

First of all,I would like to clear out the differences between 9w1 and 2w1,and also the similarities between them.
Let us first begin by pointing out the similarities. Both enneagram 9 and enneagram 2 tend to be kind,caring,pleasing people. However,with enneagram what matters is not HOW you act,but WHY you act that way.
E2,at their core,do what they do from a place of pride. They are kind and caring to people because it makes them feel important. They are,after all,an image type. They focus on taking care of their image and making themselves needed by the group through excessive acts of service and kindness. E2 act from their passion of pride,and they do so through the fixation of flattery,aka,in order to feel needed and wanted by the group,they focus on flattering others.
Meanwhile,E9 do what they do from a place of sloth. This doesn't refer to work sloth,no,it refers to lethargy and a lack of initiative when it comes to doing what they REALLY want to do. E9 are self forgetting people. They focus on what others want rather than what THEY THEMSELVES want. They act the way they do from their passion of sloth,and they do so by self forgetting,by showing laziness when it comes to doing what they want to do.

Now,let us take a look at Hanayo. From the very moment she is introduced,we can see she's someone who gets pushed around easily. When Rin tells her "Kayo-Chin,let's go take a look at X!",she just stutters and stammers a bit and struggles to speak her mind.
When Hanayo wanted to go to the concert,but Rin wanted to go check out the swimming club,Hanayo didn't complain,rather she obliged,and then when she was finally able to leave,she ran towards the auditorium. This by itself can kinda look like E2 behaviour if you squint,therefore,let us look a bit harder.

When Hanayo started showing interest in the idol club,she didn't just walk up to the girls and say "I'd like to join". Instead,she stuck to her routine and her habits and stayed quiet,and she even needed Maki and Rin to literally PUSH HER to actually admit she wanted to join. This is peak E9 performance. Sure,E2s are kind and sweet,however E2s are part of the compliant group,their whole thing is that they MOVE TOWARDS people in order to gain whatever it is that they desire. Hanayo does the opposite,she withdrawns and stays quiet in true E9 fashion because she prefers to stay quiet and get pushed around,rather than speaking up and risking losing her peace.

Another thing that to me screams ennea 9 is the way Hanayo has never spoken up about her passion for idols,prefering to keep it to herself. And then,when she finally meets someone who shares her passion,she can't help but let her emotions and her passion out. This is so extremely E9. Hiding your passions and never speaking up about them (Since having strong emotions implies the possibility of losing your peace) and then bursting with excitement when you have the chance to be heard and listened to without having to sacrifice your peace and your connections.

Also,and this is the most obvious thing here,Hanayo is someone who CLEARLY does everything EXCEPT what she wants to do. When she wanted to join the idol club,she activelly avoided letting people know that she was interesed. She even hid this from Rin,her best friend. Hanayo would rather stay quiet about what she wants to do than risk disturbing the peace. She never EVER pays attention to her own feelings and wants,which sure,can look like E2 on the surface,but once you think about it a bit,it is EXTREMELY E9.

However,I am open to discussion and if anyone has any E2 arguments,I'd love to hear them as long as they're respectful!! <3