name        :  Honoka Kosaka
kanji       :  高坂 穂乃果
color       : #f38500
mbti        : ENFP(297), ESFP(8)

(idol.st)
background:
Honoka's family owns a Japanese sweets shop named Homura. She lives at the back of the shop with her mother, father and her younger sister.
Since she was young, she has been friends with Kotori Minami, and she befriended Umi Sonoda after inviting her to a game of hide-and-seek. She is also friends with Fumiko, Hideko and Mika at school. Her grandmother and her mother are both graduates from Otonokizaka.
Starting from the second season, she succeeds Eli Ayase as Otonokizaka High School's student council president.

personality:
Honoka is an optimist who is never afraid to take risks. She is always in a good mood and likes to look at the bright side of things. She is determined and once her mind is set on something, nothing can stop her. This is believed to be the driving force behind μ's formation and success. But because of her persistent personality, she often overexerts herself.
Her personality is similar to Rin Hoshizora's because they are both determined, hard-working, and fun-loving. For example, in Season 1 Episode 7, Honoka, Rin and Nico Yazawa had to work hard to pass exams in order to enter Love Live! and are known as the "Three Idiots".
She likes to eat bread, but she doesn't like eating red bean paste or white bean paste despite working at her family's Japanese sweets shop.

(namu.wiki)

introduction:
Nice to meet you! My name is Kosaka Honoka, and I am 16 years old. I have risen up to protect our school, which will disappear in two years! I don't know if an ordinary girl like me, who isn't good at anything, can become an idol, but still!! I believe that nothing starts unless you try. I will do my best with the mindset that I won't lose to anyone when it comes to working hard. Please cheer for us!

(wikipedia)
Honoka is a second-year student at Otonokizaka Academy. Her family works in a wagashi shop named Homura. She has a cheerful personality, and very determined, never giving up on anything, to the point of usually overexerting herself - which can prove costly at times. She is shown to be lazy and reluctant to do work but is highly driven when it comes to her school idol activities. Her hobbies include swimming and collecting stickers. In the manga, she was a part of the kendo club. She is the leader of μ's, and is seen taking the center position in most of the group's songs. She later succeeds Eli as student council president.

(reddit opinion)

A: I think it could be easy to mistake Honoka as a "bad" leader. She's ditsy, impulsive, not that great at reading others, and if we're being real she's definitely the least smart of the Love Live leaders lol.
But I still think think out of all the members of μ's, Honoka was the only one who could lead them. It took her blind optimism for μ's to even form in the first place-- I mean, who even thinks of being idols to save their school? A running theme I also see in μ's is insecurity, an inability to do things without a push of reassurance, and for almost all members Honoka is that first push. Kotori would have never thought about being an idol, Umi would have rather died lol, same for Maki, etc. Honoka's uplifting presence is what keeps μ's afloat, and transfers to her work as Student Council President too-- something about S2 I think nearly everyone forgets lol, including me.
From this though I think Honoka was treated a little unfairly by μ's, especially at the end of S1 with Kotori's going-away plotline. I get that she was nervous about telling Honoka, and it's true that could be Honoka's fault for overreacting to similar news in the past. But I think the whole situation was mishandled very badly by the others, especially when the reins were taken from Honoka over entering Love Live. I put zero blame on her for trying to quit after that.
Regardless Honoka rebounds and keeps proving herself as leader, with her boundless optimism constantly pushing the group further and further. Her ability to lead a group from nothing to beating A-RISE and winning Love Live almost raises her to mythical status: she wills the rain away, she (maybe?) meets her future self, though I've never known what to make of the latter lol. This status is even symbolized in Sunshine when Aqours see a child much like her running into the distance. And it's really this childlike naiveity that makes me think there's no one better to lead Love Live's first group, and set the scene for everything to come.

B: "Datte kanousei kanjitanda
Sou da... susume!
Koukai shitakunai me no mae ni bokura no michi ga aru"
I wonder how many lives that's changed. The first words of the show, sung solo by the one, the only, Kousaka Honoka. There's so much to say about this amazing girl, but I'll try to keep it short.
Kousaka Honoka, to me, is a "perfect" character. It's not as though she has no flaws, but they round her out in such a satisfying way that I cannot find anything about her that I would ever possibly hope to change. She encapsulates everything that makes the show so fun to watch, and so meaningful.
Her character development, her relationships with the other girls of μ's, it's the perfect blend of a protagonist with a passionate girl who's following her dreams. She's headstrong, but has moments of vulnerability. She's a leader, but always seems to be relying on her friends. I'll just leave it at that.
I'll just share two important things that come to mind when I think about Honoka. Firstly, I don't particularly think that the woman in the SIP Movie was a future version of herself. It feels a bit odd that Honoka would simply drift away from a lot of her friends and just do solo performances in New York of all places. I'm perfectly okay with a metaphorical interpretation of this strange woman, but Honoka to me does not seem like the kind of girl to do that.
Second, Honoka absolutely caused the rain to stop at the shrine. It's not very important to the plot, but Honoka channeled some power there.
Emitsun did (and sometimes still does!) a truly phenomenal job portraying this girl.
I could write an entire novel about the intricacies of Honoka, but I'll leave it with this.
TLDR: 1000000000000000000/10 for the honkster. There is truly no one like her. HonoKotoUmi legendary Z-tier ship. I will fight literally anyone about this.

C: The girl that started it all, the only one that could lead a group of unique girls and give them the push they need to press on forward, Honoka has quite a charming personality, she’s quite positive despite all the issues she had to face throughout the series (although I must admit that the depression she went through at the beginning must have been truly horrible), she’s very impulsive, and maybe too carefree, but overall she’s just the best one fitted for the role to lead the legendary idol group.
On paper, one might not think she’s suited for a role such as this, but as stated, blind optimism can go a really long way toward achieving things, who would think of creating an idol group to save a school? And exactly because that’s a crazy idea no one would think, the chances of it working are in favour. Even if the path they might tread is not the safest, they wouldn’t have any regrets on following Honoka, just how Kotori ensured Umi as they thought back on the memories of their childhood (the tree climbing and the sunset), which is something I truly like about her, willpower on just doing everything she wants to, and her capability of bringing others along, is what I would consider a leader worthy skill. Her mood swings are also hilarious (looking at you, nightmare about the school closure which made her go to school so happy that the students thought she finally lost her head), and for now, she’s the best of the group leaders so far in my opinion (from the 3 first groups, I still have to get into Liella and progress through Hasunosora).
Some of her development throughout the anime felt a bit lacklustre, they certainly could have planned it better, the drama towards the end of S1 was mishandled, like it’s true that she would get hurt the most from the fact that Kotori would be leaving, and the recent events in the plot of her overworking also didn’t help the mood, but I feel she was definitely treated unfairly with how the events unfolded. She was giving her best to perform the best she could not only for herself, but also for the group and for the school, but fainted from exhaustion and greeted afterwards with awful news of her childhood friend separating from her. Even the brightest person would feel destroyed with such a turn of tides, and her being scolded by Umi that way was really harsh. I honestly feel bad for her on that.
Season 2 for me emphasised on how relevant she was to keep the group united through the challenges they had ahead, they had to compete against A-RISE to get through Love Live, and when they felt the pressure on how impactful and amazing A-RISE was after their performance, it was Honoka that lifted their spirits to give a spectacular performance. As for her becoming the school president by succeeding Eli, I like how she showed her honest self to others, she doesn’t elaborate the dialogue to make a good impression on others, she just says what she wants to tell the people with her heart, and that’s what I appreciate the most, speeches that comes though one’s heart, rather than previously prepared monologues. And while it isn’t really noticeable at a glance, she still is hardworking on her duties as the president, although I can understand she can have some complications on handling paperwork, when the 3 of them joined together we can clearly see how they did their best in meeting most of their expectations on that meeting. (After all, while she managed to pass the exam in S1, I am not sure if her maths would be mathing considering she affirmed how bad she was at that).
She’s certainly not a flawless character, and she’s certainly not a role model to follow either, but overall I think she’s a very well rounded character, the best suited to lead μ’s and a reliable president to have, her presence is just that impactful.
Since μ’s is not a group that had focused on singles, I won’t be always be writing this last line about my favourite song in most of them, but I will make an exception for Honoka since Susume —> Tomorrow had a big impact for me, and while not her solo song, I consider it my favourite song from her, just for the intro.


D; My best Love Live girl. I really admire her passion and determination when it comes to being a school idol. I also really admire how Honoka was able to bounce back from her lowest point in the end of S1 after realizing what she truly wanted. I really love her friendship with Kotori, Umi and the rest of μ's. Her solos like Someday of My Life and Mou Hitori Ja Nai Yo are some of my most favorite Love Live songs as these really show how beautiful her voice is.
Mou Hitori Ja Nai Yo really shows Honoka's kindness as the song symbolizes her reaching out to you and telling you that everything is going to okay no matter how bad things look or how sad you are and that she will be there for you.
As some have pointed out though, Honoka is much better written in the manga. As a person who watched the anime first, I was really amazed by Honoka's character in the manga which really adds more to why I love her and still consider her my best Love Live girl. An example, the manga delves deeper into Honoka's kindness and leadership skills and her determination really shows more in the manga than the anime.


E: 
I do love Honoka, she is a fantastic character and in my opinion one of the better written "magnetic hero" types of characters, especially when you take the manga stuff into account where Honoka has some really amazing moments.

It would be easy to dismiss Honoka as a simple generic "genki girl", but I do really think there is much more to her.

She was the perfect girl to start the whole franchise.




(personality-database.com opinion)

A: i don't think honoka is focused enough on other people to be 2w1. initially her motivation to become a school idol was to save otonokizaka yes, but her main desires and fears are more 7w6. even after saving otonokizaka she wasn't primarily motivated as a school idol to inspire others or make them happy, it was more for the experience of being an idol. a better example of 2 behavior would be nico, a 3w2, whose motivation is to become the best idol and receive attention/praise from others (her 3) and to make everyone smile (her 2 wing). honoka has always pulled others along with her, not specifically because she wanted to make them happy but mostly because being a school idol with them would be fun and she was inspired by a-rise. she was so determined to do it that she convinced her friends despite their protests. umi and maki were completely opposed to being a school idol in episodes 1 and 2, but joined anyway because of honoka and ended up enjoying it. if honoka was focused on pleasing others, then she likely would have chosen a different plan to save otonokizaka after umi said no in the first place. instead, she tried harder and practiced alone, fully intending on becoming a school idol anyway. umi and kotori then joined after they saw how hard she was working. honoka started out focused on what she wants to do, not really on pleasing other people. she wanted her friends to join her because it would be more fun that way (enjoying other's company is also a 7 trait)
