name        : Kotori Minami
kanji       : 南 ことり
color       : #cebfbf
mbti        : ESFJ(238), ISFJ(56)

(idol.st)
background:
Since she was young, Kotori has been friends with Honoka Kosaka and Umi Sonoda. Her mother is the director of the school. She later becomes a member of the student council and assists Honoka and Umi in doing their student council duties.

personality:

Kotori appears to be a feminine, caring, shy, and cheerful girl. She is known for having her head in the clouds. Despite this, she is μ's designer alongside Nico Yazawa, and is also clever and good at studying, being a honor student. Kotori has a very huge aptitude for fashion and is very good at drawing costumes for the group. Kotori is shown to be very kind and supportive to her friends and genuinely cares about them, especially their feelings: she's easily the most altruistic character in her group, and cares more how others feel than how she does herself. However, this can go too far as Kotori usually backs Honoka up when she (Honoka) is scolded by Umi.
Kotori is also shown as the most indecisive person among all nine members and tends to have Umi Sonoda and Honoka Kosaka, her childhood friends, make decisions for her. She also has a hard time expressing her feelings, since she always takes other people's feelings into consideration. Kotori is a kind person, but she can also be gullible, as shown in Season 1 Episode 10, wherein Nico claimed that she has a personal chef like Maki Nishikino, and Kotori fell for Nico's lie unknowingly.
In Kotori's Holiday (July 2012), it is revealed that while naive, Kotori is hard-working, and the type of person who can't relax unless all the work is done as soon as possible.

(namu.wiki)

introduction:
Kotori isn't confident at all about being an idol, but I decided to participate thinking, 'Maybe I can do it if I'm with everyone?' I often hear people call me a 'natural' and I'm quite clumsy, so I'm thinking, 'Let's try my best not to get in the way of my friends!' Still, I really love singing and dancing, so I hope to practice hard and show everyone some dances and songs that will lift their spirits.

(wikipedia)
Kotori is Honoka's classmate and childhood best friend, as well as the daughter of Otonokizaka Academy's chairwoman, whom she closely resembles. She holds responsibility as the group's wardrobe supervisor. She is very kind, selfless, and considerate and shows a care for everyone, but is also confident and holds opinions of her own, however, she can also be indecisive. For a short time, she secretly worked part-time at a maid cafe. At one point, she intended to move abroad to study fashion, but at the last minute she decided to stay in Japan and remain part of μ's. She later joins the student council and assists 

(reddit opinion)

A: Birb o’clock.
Kotori is the soft, caring heart of Mu’s, in a different way from Nozomi. I’d say Kotori is the person who will always listen to you and never ask anything, and sometimes, that’s to her own detriment.
Her character arc in season 1 was her main development. Unfortunately I don’t feel like she did a whole lot in season 2 (not that she wasn’t a character, I just don’t think she had much development, which is fine!). Reconciling her own desires with being with her friends in Mu’s became a very common story arc in practically every show after the, so you could say Kotori debuted that idea.
I read her journey is season 1 as moving from simply going along with her friends to finding a reason that she wants to be a school idol in her own right. I think that the Wonderzone episode with Minalinsky was the first piece of this idea. This was Kotori’s time to contribute and lead Mu’s in her own unique way, aside from just being the costumer. That’s why I think that her getting the letter to go overseas mattered after this point.
Kotori was beginning to find her own reason to stay with Mu’s beyond just her friends, thanks to Wonderzone. Unfortunately, Honoka pushed herself too hard for No Brand Girls. I think if this didn’t happen, Kotori might’ve come to the decision on her own to stay, but I think felt as though she had done wrong by Honoka and Umi by letting Honoka push herself too hard.
Despite wanting to stay with Mu’s, Kotori felt like she couldn’t face herself and make a decision anymore. She needed Honoka and Umi to want her to stay.
This ties in beautifully to some of her defining characteristics. Kotori is a wonderful mediator, especially between Honoka and Umi, but she often struggles with making decisions for herself. Kotori foregoing her overseas program was a big moment for her because it was something she chose for herself (although even then it was at her friends’ request). Kotori gets to lean in a bit more into the mediator aspect in season 2 as part of the Student Council, and it’s great to see her taking in more responsibility and confidence in the group.
Something that I think often goes under appreciated about the birb is the fact that she is mostly responsible for the costumes of Mu’s! They’re always stunning and it’s honestly kind of amazing how much she does for them.
In terms of the actual songs, it’s a bit hard to enjoy Kotori’s voice sometimes. I know Aya Uchida can sing well, but Kotori is in such a high register that it’s incredibly difficult to make good sound that way. If you want to try for yourself, try singing quietly as high as you can, and you’ll see how much your Larynx wants to not cooperate! At the very least, her voice for speaking is always very calm and soothing to listen to.
I wish we got more time with her interacting with the other girls!
TLDR: 12/10 for the birb girl. The more I think about Mu’s dynamic as a group, the more I enjoy what Kotori contributes. HonoKotoUmi legendary Z-tier ship (I will fight anyone about this). Helium Chirp

B: Timid and insecure at the beginning, and like Umi always dragged by Honk into "undiscovered countries". But to Birb it's also often too much - and so she starts plotting an escape via persuading her mom to enroll her into a foreign elite school (the starting point to this signature LL arc...)
"Fortunately I planned my escape..." - at the end of her "Minalinsky run". A strong hint that her emigration attempt is indeed also planned by her.
Her "proactive agreeableness" often does cause her trouble: The art club's money request is put by her into the "granted" shelf "in advance"...
Doing favors "in advance" to avoid conflicts...
In the meantime her escape attempt fails thanks to Honk (and Umi).
And so only in the "Song for You" PV Birb at long last grows a bit more self confidence: She and not Umi tries to wake up Honk by yelling right across the street (so Birb ends up in the "other extreme").
Had Yukino not done the job - would Birb have thrown a stone through the window...?
And Birb's arc climax was for me a big event:
• She went to the local airport
• with one suitcase
• while wearing a frilled shirt
• in order to escape
• and her name's "Kotori" = "little bird"...
Also Marvin Lee Aday fled his home with one suitcase. The local airport in Dallas brought him to LA and into the "flower power musical" Hair ("Let the sunshine in"). The "musical center of the universe" was already NY's Broadway where he soon would meet James Richard aka Jim Steinman, a fierce piano player and composer. Together they crafted "Bat out of Hell", the most extreme crash and escape song accoring to Jim Steinman (trope name: "The Escape". And "bat" = "little mamal bird"...). Marvin had already adopted his nick name: Meat Loaf, due to his weight. And from an "As You Like It (Shakespeare)" performance he would revive his tux and frilled shirt for the first "Bat" tours (and later for Bat 2 and 3 at times)...
Quite a few elements LL would refer to. Mari would turn the "escape" basic master plot up to Eleven; and Margarete's the hot contender in Superstar right now.
But Birb started it all...
One for the road: In the US dub Cris Vee voiced Birb. She had given her voice to Homura Akemi and Sailor Mars before. At the beginning I thought "hmm isn't this the farthest possible distance?" But considering the true innermost core of Birb's arc Cris Vee's the perfect fit.

C: Kotori did take some getting used to at first, because she seemed like a rather passive character and has a very distinct helium-infused voice. But I did come to appreciate her a lot, because she is very cute, has some great songs and the manga gives her some really good moments to showcase how she is really talented and can be quite a bit mischievous.
What I love the most is the relationship of the 2nd years though, since Honoka, Kotori and Umi have such great chemistry. Yeah it may not be overly unique if you reduce them to archetypes, but it works.
Kotori's story with studying abroad was something I thought was a bit melodramatic when I first saw it, I mean you literally had Honoka rush to the airport to stop Kotori just as she was about to board her plane and all that.
It took me a while, but eventually it clicked for me what this scene was about and I did find it relatable. When Kotori got the invitation to study abroad nobody tried to stop her, everyone just told her it was her decision and that was something that hurt her a bit, because much more than actually studying abroad, what she really wanted was for someone to tell her to stay, to make her feel wanted. Instead everyone just went with "Well, your choice".
I mean sure... it ultimately is her choice, but I can also understand how it can feel a bit sad to have nobody try to talk you out of it because they don't want to lose you.

D: Kotori is my favourite Love Live! girl from all the series and I genuinely don't have any deeper reason then she's a sweetheart and has a cute design. I like how she has the energy of a hard worker with designing the clothes, but she's also completely willing to take it easy. She's definitely a follower, not a leader and that's completely fine. I actually thought her solo episode/Wonder Zone was just ok in S1 but i'm a big fan of Wonderful Rush. I thought the School Idol Diary had an interesting angle with her developing a complex from the scar on her leg after surgery.
Kotori spawned the Kotobomb, but she also started the whole yandere meme, which somehow became a staple of the fandom's association's with latter groups as well.


(personality-database.com opinion)

A: why i think she's an ESFJ (im pretty new to cognitive functions so pls correct me if i'm wrong!) :DD frequent misconceptions: "kotori's typically quiet, she doesn't seem like an extrovert!" that's true, she is on the reserved side but we're going for cognitive intro/extroversion, not social. so she's a social introvert but cognitively she's extroverted (fe is her main function, it is extroverted due to making decisions based on other people, the outside world) "she gives me INFP vibes" she's a fe user instead of fi! i'll elaborate more while i discuss her functions but if you think she's an INFP, compare her with hanamaru/rina as they are pretty different (they both are the only love live characters who i think are INFPs) "could ISFJ work?" i'll talk about that after i delve into her function stack :)) fe dom- kotori's main personality is about her caring deeply about her friends' feelings and depending on them for decisions (she typically struggles with being indecisive and having honkers + umi make decisions for her). i'm gonna take the 2nd years friendship for example: she's like the peacemaker, balancing their dynamic that consists of honoka's enthusiasm and umi's strictness and keeping a harmony between them, which translates along to muse. an example is kotori refusing to tell the girls about her chance to go to the us for fashion school and only keeping it a secret for honoka's and the group's sake. si aux- ngl this one was pretty difficult to decide on but i decided on si. i feel like this is a weak example but i'm going to be talking about her role as a fashion designer, she makes all of these creative and elaborate costumes (which look really challenging to replicate) and being able to create all of them, identify little details

B: hellooo I’m back again with another argument for her type!! today I’m here to say she seems sx/so > so/sx!! kotori tends to lose herself in other people, especially honoka, forgetting her own desires because she starts to think that she wants what they want. she “merges” her desires and agenda with honokas for the longest time, and is lowkey dependent on her for decision making. that’s why she’s so unassertive and so scared to follow her passion of fashion (outside of the idol club). this quote from Beatrice chestnut about sx 9s seems very Kotori-like: “ They can even know they want to do something and not be able to do it for a long time, especially if it involves any kind of conflict with others.” social 9s have a very big need to belong and so they work hard to gain a sense of belonging in a group, which is kind of like Kotori but definitely not as much as sx 9. her whole character development is learning to stand on her own two feet, assert her own desires and follow her dreams without being held back by everyone else’s desires and needs. those are major struggles for sx 9s, less so social 9s. 