
name        : Maki Nishikino
kanji       : 西木野 真姫
color       : #ff503e 
mbti        : INTJ(258), ISTJ(27)

(idol.st)
background:
Maki comes from a highly reputable and wealthy family marked by doctors and hospital ownership. She is an only child, and thus, the sole heiress to her family's properties and legacy. Because of this, Maki is spoiled and doted on yet not given any long-term freedom to be anything other than a doctor. Maki respects her parents and does not question their expectations despite the immense pressure to live up to their standards and make them proud.

Although Maki grew up singing and practicing piano, her parents' emphasis on Maki's medical concentration has made her accept that she ultimately must give up her passion for music, this becoming an increasing reality each year she grew older. She always had a notably beautiful voice, and she was able to compose her own music with a piano. Despite music always being her true passion, when Honoka invites her to join µ's, Maki refuses at first in accordance to her self-inflicted pressure to deny herself music in favor of her studies. Ultimately, she is able to admit and accept her true feelings of love for music and join µ's.

Because of Maki's wealth, it is discovered in Season 1 Episode 10 that her parents own a beach house. Therefore, μ's gladly insisted that Maki should go and ask her parents if they could use it, which they allow. In Season 2 Episode 2, it is revealed that her family also owns a vacation house in the mountains.

personality:
Maki has the qualities of a tsundere, and she has a hard time admitting her true feelings to her peers. She also has somewhat childish beliefs which are undoubtedly reflections on her somewhat sheltered upbringing. One such example is her uninterrupted belief in Santa Claus, which the rest of the group finds out about while together. Maki continues on to describe (somewhat proudly) how she cleans the chimney for Santa, and how he never misses her house. Nico attempts to disillusion her, but is held back by other members who did not want to ruin Maki's belief. (Season 2, Episode 2)

Maki was initially portrayed as a loner in the first few episodes, and spent her time alone in the music room. Her standoffishness can be attributed to her tsundere qualities in which although she may want to get close to others, she cannot admit that and refuses, as best she can, to show it. Throughout the series, Maki opens up more and more, but elements of her solitary life before µ's crop up from time to time with her awkwardness and inability to properly admit her investment in their friendship.

Maki is also quite stubborn. This was shown when she was invited to play at the beach, as she was withdrawn from the group and not interested in playing with them.

Although Maki is not conceited nor-stuck up, there are moments where her pride combined with her privileged and sheltered upbringing with few other friends lead Maki to unintentionally act insensitively or arrogantly. Despite this, µ's understands that Maki has no such intentions, and usually any questionable interaction with Maki is usually because of her tsundere side preventing her from speaking how she really feels.

Her personality often clashes with Nico Yazawa, such as when she called Nico stubborn during Season 2 Episode 4. Rin, however, tells her "You're one to talk", implying that Maki is stubborn as well.

(namu.wiki)

introduction:
Maki is 15 years old♥ I plan to follow in my dad and mom's footsteps and become a doctor, so I don't really have time for idol activities. But it would be a waste to be on hiatus when I'm just this cute, right? So, for now, I've joined the "Memories of Youth"♥ My hobbies are shopping, what I want most right now is an older brother, and my special skill is doing the splits . What was my appeal point again? Ah, even though I look like this, I've been single for 15 years!![10]

(wikipedia)
Maki is a first-year honor student who comes from a wealthy family of doctors. She is a talented young singer and pianist, but is expected to become a doctor and inherit her parents' hospital, which makes her reluctant to join μ's at first. She initially comes across as aloof and a tsundere-like personality, but eventually warms up to the group over the course of the series. Maki is the main composer and vocal coach of the group. She later becomes the vice president of the Idol Research Club after the third-years' graduation.

(reddit opinion)

A: The Tomato Tsundere, its Maki time :)

You know, as much as I relate to Umi’s shyness and politeness, I also find myself relating to Maki’s love for music, standofishness, and of course her red hair.

Nishikino Maki is an absolutely wonderful character, and in my opinion, the best execution of a “tsun”-type character, even if she’s not really in a romantic kind of show. She’s brash, confident, gets defensive easily, but she’s also clumsy, considerate, and definitely learns how to let down her barriers around the people she loves. I enjoy seeing how in some respects Maki mellows out over the course of the show, but in others stays true to herself, the hotheaded piano girl.

I still think it’s kind of amazing how the MakiRinPana episode manages to do a solid job at introducing all 3 of the first years and give them believable and understandable reasons for wanting to join Mu’s. Maki was obviously interested in being a school idol to some extent before she met Honoka and began composing music for her, but unlike the other two first years, Maki ends up joining because Honoka takes her up on her response that “it’s too easy”. Through Rin and Hanayo, she does eventually find enough of a reason to stay beyond that, but still.

Maki’s journey through SIP is very much about forming deeper emotional relationships with other people. Learning how to navigate them, lower her barriers, and grow close to other people. I find her conversation with Nozomi to be one of the best moments of the sleepover episode. Not just because it’s an interaction between two characters who don’t talk very much, but also because it makes so much sense for Nozomi to have some experience dealing with closed-off girls and know how to help them open up.

Maki has very unique relationships with the different girls in the show, but I’ll talk about the main ones.

With Rin and Hanayo, Maki never really had friends her age in general (if I recall correctly), before the two of them, and she becomes very close with both of them. They have an excellent dynamic (with Rin not caring at all about her tsun-ness, and Hanayo taking her at her word), and it feels very genuine that the three of them really do end up caring about each other a lot. Their song in the movie together was really fun to see how far the three of them have come.

With Honoka (and to an extent the other second years) Maki goes from having a traditional Senpai-Kouhai relationship to genuinely being good friends with them. Honoka specifically is able to see right through Maki’s attitude, which also another really funny way that they play off of each other.

Whenever I rewatch the show, I am always surprised at how rarely Nico and Maki actually end up interacting. Believe me, I would love to gush for hours about the intricacies of their relationship and the two of the play off of each other perfectly. But now even I’m not exactly sure how much of it is “canon” material (from comics and whatnot), how much of it is legitimately fanon, and how much actually happened.

The crazy thing is though, is that despite that, it is still (I believe) the most popular ship in SIP, and perhaps the most popular ship in the entire franchise. Their dynamic works so fluidly and wonderfully together that it is such a joy to see them in any form. On the surface, Nico and Maki both act somewhat tsun towards each other, but seeing them both learn to understand each other a bit better always makes my heart melt. Also Nico getting possessive over Maki in the SIP movie is funny.

I don’t think Maki gets enough credit for doing most of the work composing the songs for Mu’s. At least in canon, it is kind of crazy what she was able to do, even if as the group got larger she got more help.

TLDR: 100/10 for the red hair girl. Pile is such a phenomenal singer have you heard this woman? NicoMaki legendary Z-tier ship, would not be surprised if it’s one of the most popular Yuri ships of all time.

B: Maki is my favourite character from μ’s, and one of the few, if not first, instance that tsundere type of character that I actually ended up liking, she’s such a great character. Despite how blunt and “angry” attitude, you know she cares about the members, like how she gave the push Hanayo needed to join μ’s (while dragging herself into it and complaining in the next episode intro lol).

She is clearly talented with the piano, and her initial interactions with Honoka were hilarious, how she was stalked by her excited clapping, refusing to join the group but aiding them in the sidelines by composing their first song, while Nozomi was kind of pushing her to not be shy and joining the group, which she eventually did, and her role as the composer of the group was definitely interesting, how she composed START:DASH!! behind the scenes, how she got frustrated along with Umi and Kotori in S2, and how she wrote the notes during the movie, which she kept secret until Nozomii pointed that out.

What’s also funny for me is how her being the rich character from the group she constantly is being asked favours for either the summer camp and the winter camp, or when Honoka in the movie suddenly had an idea and requested her aid for the train fee and everyone agreed in unison, that made me laugh quite hard.

Unfortunately I don’t remember too week her relationships with the other members of the group, but it is clear to me that she has a lot of fun interactions throughout the series and that she is definitely an enjoyable character, Pile definitely did an amazing job with her.

My favourite song of Maki is Daring!!, it’s such a great song and one I’ve been looping through the last year. As second song, it’s Soldier Game, it’s unfortunate that she doesn’t have as many songs as the other members.

C: 
<- (Rin) Previous | Next (Nozomi) ->

I like Maki! She's a really great character, probably my favourite from μ's. I like how despite her knee-jerk anger and poor social skills she does genuinely care, and just struggles to get that care out-- not that she lacks it. Her blunt pragmatic approach can be actually very helpful at times, like when she very pointedly reassures Hanayo on her singing abilities. She's an honest straight-talker but not in a way that means she's always just rude, and I like that about her.

I also see a really interesting path with Maki and her future. It's pretty clear piano is her passion, but her parents are likely (perhaps officially, I forget) going to push her to become a doctor, or at least take over their side of the hospital business. I'd love to have seen a story like Mari in OTR, with Maki confronting her parents and sticking to her dream. Closing her story with this self-assertation and full embrace of emotion would be very satisfying IMO. Still I'm happy enough with Maki being the one who realizes Nozomi's living situation in S2, her level-headed and sweet response was very close to this satisfying end I wanted.

I do feel Maki leans too into trope-y tsundere at times. I'd much rather she just be dry and blunt than suddenly over-the-top angry-- it feels incongruent with her character, like they're just trying to tick a -dere box every now and then. Still though, the anger works for her, but I'd rather without it. I'm also not crazy on her relationship with Nico, I think Maki would make more sense with characters like Nozomi or Rin or Honoka, but if I speak more I will be in big trouble.

D: Best Girl! Maki is not just my favorite character in all of Love Live but one of my absolute, top tier favorites in general. She's a comfort character and Best Girl.

I love how talented she is (evident from Episode One where she's singing and playing piano!)

She's kinda abrasive and harsh at times but deep down she truly cares for her friends and wants to be accepted even though she has a hard time letting that shine through at times. I find that this quality is relatable. Her diary entries are the best as well because it shows moments that deal with that (like the Bike!)

Character design, she's the best IMO. Red + Purple is an easy sell to me. Great eyes, a cool hairstyle that is easy to twirl.

She has fantastic outfits in SIF (Zodiac, Constellation, Snow, etc)

Pile/Maki's voice is wonderful! You know exactly who is singing as soon as you hear her! Her solo mix of Music S.T.A.R.T and Aishiteru Banzai are amazing! But don't sleep on others like Dancing Stars On Me though!

I'll stop there. Tomato/10

E: 
Maki the one dominating most of the popularity polls.

But once again there's far more to it and her...

The "red haired tsundere" following into Asuka Soryu's footsteps. Asuka at the beginning is compensating her inside-feel of insecurity with a fake extroversion - Maki has already given up on that once she becomes an Oto student.

The reason: She too wants to protect her "Absolute Terror field", her inside vulnerability, like Asuka.

And thus Maki's character concept leans towards the Rei Ayanami Expy as well.

The symbiosis of both, by proving both are the two sides of the same coin.

At long last ShikiMei would provide us "Asuka and Rei" in a better enviromment - including Evangelion's female school uniforms that were also utilized by Haruhi, who invented the "SOS school club".

And LL's idol clubs prove their "SOS squad capabilities" on a regular basis.

Same with Maki: Most symbolically she's playing a Yamaha piano with its signature lid stand - shaped like the famous tuning fork.

Eva's Longinus Lance too's shaped like this. Music as the most noble achievement of man, quote Kaworu Nagisa.

And so Maki's able to control man's most noble achievement. Muse needs this indeed... a plot to return in LL on a regular basis again...

But considering the Longinus Lance's other position inside the plot it also hints how terrible and lonely Maki feels.

The aforementioned and -linked Asuka reference again.

And only thanks to Muse Maki can leave behind her past toxicity (for instance on the one hand giving Rin a headchop without a good reason; while on the other hand not being able to say "no" when in S2 a new song's required for each new LL round and Maki's face is visibly turning sour due to the work overload. But Maki doesn't protest, at least not yet...)

The climax in her arc must be her OVA that's bringing together Eva's childhood flashback with PMMM's atmo:

Muse the good spirits ("kami") to light up Maki's night, most symbolically.

And so Maki's now on her way to make it through a tsundere's standard (?) development: Per aspera ad astra, most literally and symbolically. Even though Maki would still need time...

Her OVA also marks the beginning to LL's lasting impact and legacy: Its way of depicting a past-future-overlap (i.e. bending spacetime and overstretching the genre-boundaries on behalf of the characters) would become enormously infuential:

Kimi No Na Wa

Mirai No Mirai

and in its own way even Thrice Upon A Time

...would all utilize this as a key plot ingredient.

A hell of a "success ladder" after hardly being able to pay for the spotlights onstage at the beginning.

The OVA as the first big turning point. And all character-driven.

(personality-database.com opinion)

A: Maki is definitely a Te-Fi user. She's mostly aware of her feelings, the thing here is that she just doesn't externalize them (Fi), but if you look at her diary you can see more of her internal process [1]. You can notice how she gradually developed her Fi during the three images, and in the last one she starts saying how her usual abordage was more Te like and then she started valuying her Fi.
Dom Ti users aren't usually aware of their feelings since while Ti tries to define things in a way that makes sense in their logical framework, Fi is too subjective and into their feelings which denies Ti's usual logical behavior, which also works along with the inferior Fe: since they don't get their emotions, they don't get others', and even if they want to understand it's difficult for Ti to do that.
Also, Maki's actions are always looking at results and how her actions will reach her wished goal, doing mostly the necessary and overstudying. Another example of how she uses Te-Fi is how others describe her as a very direct person who is always sincere about what she thinks [2]. Rather than trying to understand things to it's core and fit a logical framework (Ti), Maki searches for empyrical external structure to apply problem solving (Te) like in the manga when µ's were trying to win a voting contest and she was the first who came with the solution of rigging votes to reach their goal, taking in count it was the most efficient and straightforward method to do so.

 That's why the biggest question should be between ISTJ and INTJ. First, i thought she was an ISTJ, then after analyzing more of her character INTJ.
She's pretty complex to get because the anime doesn't give enough info about her internal process and doesn't go that deep into her character (for example it doesn't even show her biggest struggle: dealing with her family).
She looked like a high Si user because of her struggle due to being her family's heir, and because of that her parents want her to become a doctor and take over the hospital, so she already has her entire life planned for that.
Since she was just following her parents' plan without questioning it or doing her own, i supperficially thought Si dom. But here is where the tricky thing about her character is: she was always repressed from her own views and wishes [3].
Even though she was always searching for a way to get her parents' attention and show that she is good to other things rather than the future they idealized for her, they never really looked at her so the only experience she had until meeting µ's was that this was the only way to live life.
After knowing µ's, getting access to new experiences and perspectives, her change is very perceptive [4] and she develops her Fi and it's described in her diary her first argument with her father and how she started valuing more her wishes. [1] Consequently, becaming healthier and being more in touch with all her functions.

 It's also when in one of her stories after talking about the town's history with her friend, that she had an insight when she was walking home and while looking at each build started having a general view about how every build and person and event would fit into the same big picture and wondered about future predictions for the city (Ni) [5].
There's also more evidence about Maki's Ni in the anime, for example in Season 2 episode 8 7:00 minutes, when she had an insight and saw through Eli and Nozomi's actions and went after them to confirm her suspicions, which were right, and comparing Maki's behavior with Umi's (ISTJ) she acted very different. She also struggles in dealing with Se activities [6] (and is described as clumsy by Eli) and when she fantasizes about herself is mostly about being good in Se related activities [7] while thinking about a bigger goal in the future (If i were an idol i would be top 1 since i'm the most beautiful and talented)
About her enneagram, i can see both 5w4 and 5w6, being her wing 6 the external security she saw on following into her parents' plan but also her wing 4 on how much she values her individuality and self-expression, and since even though she was just following her parent's plans, she was also struggling due to the need of expressing her individuality and being noticed, and that's why i voted for 5w4.

B: Maki has evident Ni. Everyone that has read her school idol diary can find a bunch of lines that are evident proof of Ni-dom with her. Her Te is there, but its hard to see. She was the first one to come to a straight forward solution (rigging votes) with pure logic. Her Fi is there, but im pretty sure it gets little development because she hides her feelings most of the time as a defense mechanism, but it does develop when she finally goes along with what she wants, and she stops following her parents. If you have only watched the Love Live! anime, then dont jump along to typing her and read her school idol diary and the manga. There's a whole other layer to her character that the anime doesn't show, and just plays her off as a "tsundere".

Edit 1: Maki's School Idol Diary is all about Her Ni-Fi being shut down by her parents.
And in the anime, her Fi is also very restrained. She doesn't listen to what she wants often. The first time Honoka asked for her to compose a song for µ's, she blatantly rejected her. She ended up changing her mind though, and Nozomi who is a Ni-Fe user instantly noticed how she couldn't be honest with herself and spoke to her about it.
The whole reason she joined µ's was because she wanted to in the first place, but couldn't be honest about it.
