
name        : Nico Yazawa
kanji       : 矢澤 にこ
color       : #ff4f91 
mbti        : ENTP(248),ENFJ(135)

(idol.st)
background:
In Season 1 Episode 5, it is discovered that during her first year of high school she started an idol group. However, one by one the members gave up because Nico's standard for idols was too high for them and they couldn't keep up.

In Season 2 Episode 4, it is revealed she has two younger sisters named Cocoro and Cocoa, and a younger brother Cotaro. Nico's father has been out of the picture, and so her mother is constantly out of the house in order to work and financially provide needs for her four children. Due to being in a single-parent household, money is tight and their living space is compact. Because Nico's mother is nearly never home, Nico has long since assumed the role of their household's head (or possibly sole) caretaker. Nico is the eldest by the largest age gap, with her three siblings being all much younger than her and closest to age with each other. Because of this, Nico is accustomed to and skilled in cooking and housekeeping. Most importantly, however, she seems to care very much for her younger siblings, and will do anything to make them smile. She will go as far as to lie in order to make them happy. This is discovered when Nico's siblings express their belief that the other members are Nico's backup dancers, which was a lie that Nico told them and substantiated with altered μ's posters in which she was the center (switched with Honoka). Unaware of the truth, Cocoro, Cocoa, and Cotaro act happy, proud and inspired by the idea of their oldest sister's unparalleled success.

All of this information comes as a surprise to the other members, as it runs contrary to her often self-centered behavior at school and during idol work. However, the revelation of Nico's home life provides insight as to why Nico's specific personality traits and values developed and how they inform her behavior within μ's. Her brazen desire for the spotlight and to be doted on is a product of not being afforded such attention due to her home situation. Nico's obsession with making others smile with her catchphrase ("Nico Nico Nii!" or にっこにっこにー) is related to when Nico would try her hardest to cheer up her family members during hardships.

Nico's special skill is hair arrangement.

personality:
Normally, Nico has quite an abrasive personality, but when she takes on her alternate personality, she becomes a happy, upbeat character who is always smiling, often saying her catchphrase, "Nico Nico Nii!" (にっこにっこにー), accompanied with a pose. She usually thinks a bit highly of herself but, despite that, she is also caring.

It is later revealed in Season 2 Episode 4 that her obsession with performative, over-the-top happiness and cuteness is because of the difficulty of her home situation. Her family circumstances and the role she plays in it have led her to fixate on both making sure as many people as possible are smiling and also seeking and receiving attention and praise. This manifests in her idol obsession and subsequent persona.

A common joke in the series is that she's often ignored by the other members of μ's when she claims that she is the better idol. An example of her trying to make the others believe she is the better idol is in Season 1 Episode 10 when Nico claims that she has a personal chef like Maki and has never cooked before. Kotori falls for the lie unknowingly. However, she accidentally forgot about her lie when it was dinner time, and ended up cooking for everyone to reveal the truth.

Sometimes, her determination to become the best idol causes her to be a little bit cold, calculating, and somewhat ill-intentioned. An example of this is in Season 1 Episode 6 where she is seen suggesting that the girls hold a karaoke and dancing competition, hoping to outshine the others, so that everyone will accept that she is the better idol and to be able to claim centre position.

Nico often gets annoyed with the former student council president, Eli Ayase, for taking away the spotlight from her with Eli's beauty and maturity.

She also argues a lot with Maki, since their personalities often clash together. However, they have a good friendship and they actually care about each other.

(namu.wiki)

introduction:
I'm Yazawa Nico. Nice to meet you. Please take care of me. I'd say Nico is actually quite confident, or rather, I like dressing up. I think that if I become an idol, I'll definitely be able to wear super cute clothes, so I'm already looking forward to it. I'm not very good at singing, but I'll cover songs with a smile... or something. Hehe ~ I would be super happy if you could tell me about outfits that suit Nico. I'm waiting with anticipation~!

(wikipedia)

Nico is a third-year student interested in fashion, and thus acts as the group's wardrobe supervisor alongside Kotori. She has the strongest desire to become an idol out of everyone in μ's, and has tirelessly worked hard in order to achieve her goal. However, much to her chagrin, Nico is childlike in appearance and behavior despite her age, looking much younger than the rest of the group. Nico formed the Idol Research Club, but all of her club members left one after another because of her high standards. When Honoka and her friends ask her to have the club as μ's base of operations, she is reluctant at first, doubting how far they are willing to go to become successful idols, until she approves of their effort and eventually joins the group. She is rather tough, has a tendency of acting like a big shot and constantly craves attention, but is deeply cares of the people around her. Unlike the other members of the group, she has an idol persona and tends to invoke her catchphrase, "Nico Nico Nii", with an accompanying pose. Nico is scared of water and can't swim. She is however a very good cook, which comes from having to caring for and look after her three younger siblings. After she graduates, she passes on the role of club president to Hanayo.

(reddit opinion)

A: 
Ironically, Nico IS the reason I started watching LoveLive, but I didn't know going in that she was the Nico-Nico-Nii! girl. Her appearance and design, just how adorable she looks, is why - at the peak of my obsession with twintails.

But while I showed up for the cute twintails, I stuck around for an experience in relatability that turned my mood around. While it isn't the same, my hobby is similar, and I'd been really jaded with it because I was struggling to do it as well as I was once able to. Nico's backstory echoed mine, and through her and her experiences with Muse, I was able to take my own passion back for the first time in 2 to 3 years. I never cried to a show before watching SIP, but I proceeded to tear up 4 times during it. Nico and her backstory account for 3 of them.

This also led to my mood improving in general as I grew to really accept and embrace myself - even if that meant embracing anime girls as well. I'd say it was worth it, and LL - and by extension Nico - were at the epicenter of this.

So while Nico has been surpassed in time by our light-brown-haired overlords Kotori and You (Watanabe), witnessing Nico's character arc has reshaped me as a person, and that can never be taken away from her.

B: Onto my thoughts for Nico: do I think she's a good character? Yes, undoubtedly so. But do I think she's a good character? Eh. She's probably the best character I've ever seen in any media that I just do not and cannot enjoy. Everything about her is perfect: she fills the front-up self-absorbed cute-idol role perfectly, she has a good backstory to explain it, and she slots in with the rest of the cast perfectly. She undoubtedly deserves her status as Love Live's flagship character-- her design, behaviours, and mannerisms are just that iconic. For better or for worse. (Remember Hit or Miss?)

But MAN if I saw her on the road I'd cross the other way. Every reason Nico is great is a reason why I don't personally like her. She's not a bad character-- far from it, she's one of Love Live's best-- but she's a bad character for me. I tend not to like the gremlin characters much though, at least until Kasumi, so this is entirely subjective. She's the best designed shirt in a colour I just don't like.

C: I generally enjoy nicos character as I find her a fun character to watch and kinda just be the butt of the joke most of the time but I initially didn't feel much for her until the show got to her focus episode and that's when I really got to properly like and appreciate her and I still think that the stuff about her dad and the nico nico nii that was discussed in her school idol diary should have been implemented into the anime. Speaking of the nico nico nii I'm one of those people who got into love live because of the nico nico nii memes and to me nico will always be the unofficial mascot of the love live franchise due to her gaining mainstream popularity as a meme icon. No matter how much the series pushes the orange haired genki leaders of each respective group as the faces/mascots of the franchise while I got zero issues with them as mascots to me the face of the franchise is still nico

D: Nico Nico Nii! It’s Nico time.

Being the face of a franchise is no small task. But with those 3 words above, Yazawa Nico managed to find her way into the spotlight of the early 2010’s internet. While it’s certainly amazing to talk about the cultural impact of this girl, this is a character discussion, so I’ll leave it at that.

Yazawa Nico is a character that I just cannot bring myself to dislike. Yeah, she’s annoying at times, and she’s often the butt of a lot of jokes in the show, but even so, Nico’s more serious scenes are some of the best in all of SIP. She’s a very emotionally compelling character, even if it takes a bit to see it.

Granted, my perception of her character might be influenced by various things beyond the direct canon of the anime, so my perception of Nico might be slightly warped. In any case, her character is honestly rather straightforward, but is one of the centerpieces for the entire show.

Nico’s journey throughout SIP is one of the most upfront and direct ones we’re shown as an audience. We get to see her motivation, reasons for being the way she is, her backstory, and her character development firsthand. There’s not a lot of ambiguity to be honest. She comes across initially as a bit of an arrogant jerk, but she has a real passion for idols under that exterior, and she really doesn’t learn to care about everyone as the show goes on.

My reading of her character is that Nico is a girl who’s had to go through a lot of struggles in her life. From her home situation, to not having being a school idol work out at first. She maintains this hardened, rough exterior because, much like Maki, she’s very scared of letting people in. Nico is a girl who’s been hurt a lot, but doesn’t feel safe enough to let it show.

Perhaps the only subtext that is given from Nico is how she becomes a little more confident in her true self as the show goes on, where she feels safe enough to drop the act she puts up around the rest of Mu’s.

Her relationship with the rest of the girls is, like Nico’s journey, rather straightforward. She has a real soft spot for the other two third years, and they do for her as well. She was initially hostile towards the second years, but over time grew to respect and care deeply for them. After all, Honoka’s dedication and passion stirred up Nico’s feelings. She became an idol again because of her. Lastly, she tries to act as a bit of a mentor towards the first years, but often ends up failing due to their personalities.

Of course, there’s a bit of a distinction for Maki. I think that Nico understands Maki really well due to how they both struggle with letting down their barriers. While Nico’s barrier is an outgoing arrogant attitude, Maki’s is a repressed, aloof shell. Once they start spending more time as idols, they both learn about each other and themselves. Granted, that’s about the extent of what we’re shown. We get to see Nico acting a bit possessive of Maki during the SIP movie, but their relationship isn’t as much of a focus as the sheer volume of fanwork would suggest.

All in all, Nico is the loveable “koakuma” of Mu’s, and the show wouldn’t be the same without her. The only thing I wanted to see from her was having more time of being a bit more open with the girls. It’s always a pleasure to see how Nico grows.

TLDR: 48/10 for the gremlin. Soramaru does a wonderful job with her. NicoMaki legendary Z-tier ship.

Now that Mu’s is all wrapped up, I’d just like to leave a final comment. I never really got into Love Live back when Mu’s were at their peak. I was a bit too young to really be interested in the show when they were at their best, but when I first got into the show, I was amazed, and deeply saddened by what I missed out on. This group was truly something unique, and their storyline is honestly wonderful. Mu’s not only tells a story of 9 girls coming together to be something amazing, but also documents the story of the Love Live franchise rising from nothing to become something spectacular.

If anyone cares, my (current) favorite Mu’s songs are: Snowhalation, Aishiteiru Banzai and Susume->Tomorrow, but I love a lot of their work.

D: 
Nico time has arrived!

A bit more than a year ago, I knew close to nothing about Love Live, Nico was my first exposure to the series, with her iconic scene and its remix song meme, for which I had a time in which I couldn’t get that out of my head, and even then I can’t even believe I did nothing to research about it, but I guess 7 years ago I wasn’t interested in anime at all, so I can’t blame my past self. I will always be grateful for her because of this.

Talking about the character, I personally never liked gremlin type of character, so unfortunately, while I respected her a lot, she didn’t catch my attention that much throughout the show, but I did get to slightly change my opinion as the show progressed and I got exposed to the parts of her backstory, and while is not that clear, I do think she had one of the best developments of the group, from a arrogant girl that refuses to let Honoka begin her idol ambitions due to her fervour about her ideal of being a school idol, to learn to respect Honoka’s passion and being a member to opening herself to the group, showing that she does care about the group and the members.

Watching her growth during the show was honestly one of my most memorable experiences from her, from trying to form a school idol club that wasn’t successful, to lying to her siblings about her still being one, accepting someone’s else’s idea of being a school idol, her edits to the μ’s posters after gaining momentum, to confronting reality and laying down her barriers to both the group and her siblings, and I suppose her mom too? (While I am aware of her backstory about her father and other details from my time in this sub, I won’t include it since I don’t know much about it myself nor it was properly explained in the show), to how cheerfully she claimed that they became stars after putting sunglasses on in the movie, her evolution was amazing to see.

But as much as I may like and respect her, I will agree with you OP, she’s not the kind of character I would hang around and unfortunately would also avoid her most of the time.

But overall, she’s just iconic for me because as for many people, I was one of those whose first exposure into the Love Live series was her, and while I didn’t get into it back then, I did recall seeing my middle brother playing what I speculate it was the first SIF, so after getting in this rabbit hole and in this sub, we did get to have another topic to talk about, so I shall be always grateful to her, even if sometimes the remix of her Nico Nico Ni suddenly gets into my head at random intervals and refuses to get out.

I don’t think I have listened to her solo song yet (shame on me I guess), so my current favourite song of hers is after school NAVIGATORS (NicoRinPana is still Nico after all) and Cutie Panther if going with subunits. And now that we wrapped up μ’s, my favourite group songs from them are Snow Halation, START:DASH, Yume no Tobira and Kaguya no Shiro de Odoritai.

Overall I am really thankful to μ’s for their contribution to the series, without them we probably wouldn’t have all the variety of music and shows that we can enjoy nowadays, Love Live really has changed my life and my wallet, but I will have to admit that in the beginning I was hesitant about starting another group after Nijigasaki, as I knew myself well enough to know that I can become too hyped up with things I like, which turned to be true but I don’t have any regrets, and it was my surprise of knowing that Nico was actually from Love Live and my curiosity in knowing the context about her famous line which made me dive into μ’s and thereafter the rest of the groups with my friend, and even though I now like more the other groups for their wider range of music, μ’s will always have a special place in my heart for both the characters and how iconic their songs are. And of course, to the first and most iconic gremlin of Love Live. I kinda feel bad for missing out on Love Live when μ’s was still around, but honestly I don’t regret anything about how things have turned out now so I won’t be worrying about those details.

This was definitely longer than I expected, but I definitely don’t mind having spent extra hours thinking about it. Looking forward to Aqours next, thanks for the discussions OP!

E: Fuck, where do i begin about Nico Yazawa?

Nico was the reason i got into the series (well, technically it was Siivagunner) and my god im so thankful for her and the SIP series as it really brought me out of a terrible funk. She flips a switch within me that made me want to be more outward and optimistic in the face of adversity and negativity. She really turned me around in alot of positive ways. Her journey and her motivations really resonated with me and she learned to let her defenses down around her new friends.

Yeah, she is not perfect, but like no one is. She might not own up to all her flaws and she can be downright cruel and a bit of a gremlin but it often blows up in her face. She grows from it all and she elevates the group to levels that really soar. She WANT to succeed and if it means learning a lesson to achieve that then she will.

Tokui Sora brings such a powerful performance in every scene she has, and sure, her singing voice isnt like Umi or Eli (Rin is actually the best singer in the group, fight me on that) But what Nico brings to the table is character, spunk and fun. Shes cutesy, frilly and Soramaru does her justice. Her solo songs are all wonderful and shes a center in one of the best singles, Natsuiro Egao De, 1, 2 Jump!

All of my friends associate her with me, i have several figures of her, my Final Fantasy XIV character is her, have her on T Shirts, a poster, hell id probably get her pink smiling face tattoo if i could muster the courage to do it. Theres so much i could say but i'll just say this; I adore Nico with all my heart. I wasn't born in the era of flying cars and space travel but im alive at just the right time for Nico Nico Nii.

(personality-database.com opinion)

A - ESFJ: There’s such a huge confusion on this profile but I’m glad people are getting close to her accurate type. Is she ENTP? (stereotype vote ignore this) ENTJ? ENFJ? SO3? SO2? I have the answer that can satisfy everyone with my reasonings, and it's Fe dom but SP2. I will do a character analysis and break her down since the top 2 major consensus is for T>F. I will first explain Fe dom and Fe > Te, then 2 core > 3, then self-preservation 2 > all.

So Fe over Te, why does she exhibit Fe over Te? Well, to put it simply: Nico dominantly chooses to value adapting herself to the objective situation for harmony of feelings.

This is first characterized in her family life, where she would have to be the raised as the big sister taking care of her younger siblings due to only having a single parent. Her mother is always out of the house to provide financial needs for the family. Nico had to take care of them and got accustomed to cooking and housekeeping, but grew to love doing anything for the ones she loves. She cares deeply about her younger siblings and will do ANYTHING to make them happy. Even lying, proof of this being when her siblings state that the other members are Nico's backup dancers, and that she was the center due to the poster she created. Nico told them this lie as it made them happy, being proud and inspired by the idea that their big sister's success as the BEST school idol, being one that hasn't failed and given up on her dream. She justifies it because they thought of her as a hero and wanted to destroy any idea of them having a disappointed look in their face.

This values Fe over Te, valuing the maintenance of a positive environment to feel in synced harmony of her own feelings. Whereas Te values objective data such as facts and borrowed ideas.

Nico's greatest obsession and desire is to make others smile, she sees going through her hardships and the reward of making others happy worth it as an ultimate goal for her life. This ties into why she's blatantly a 2, as she fits passion of pride. She's fixated on feeling important to others through recognition, praise, and love. Desires being the center of attention and having the spotlight due to being deprived of attention from her home life; having a deceased father and busy mother.

Her desire to be the ultimate idol is due to the fact that an idol, uses their skills and own abilities to bring people together and give them immense joy. Nico sees this reasoning as an outlet to feed into what she values the most, so it is very obvious that she is a Fe dom. Her catchphrase is exuberant and attention grabbing, to charm and please others with cuteness.

Every member of μ's had lied to themselves about their true passions, conjuring up contradictory reasons for why they couldn't be school idols and the formation of them was done through refuting those contradictions and persuading them to fulfill their true desires.

Nico puts on a mask and lies frequently throughout the anime, much more than the others. This defines her character, as she always justifies her selfishness that it's for the sake of others, as that is something an idol is supposed to be. It should be obvious by now that Nico is a Fe dominant. One that is changing their personality and attempt to influence the social environment to feel correct.

But what makes her different than a Fe dom like Kotori? They skillfully use Fe for different reasons. In Kotori's case, she cares WAY too much about not hurting others. She was too selfless, being very scared to hurt their feelings. Iconic example of this is being so scared to tell Honoka about studying abroad and leaving, all she had to do was just tell her the truth up front about wanting to be with her instead.
Fe dom 9.

Fe is usually selfish in Nico's case. She justifies all her lies for the sake of making others smile, because that's what an idol does right? Well, the background of this is really her wanting to SHINE as an idol. She CRAVES love and recognition, admiration from others. She genuinely just wants to be an idol and receive the rewards that an idol gets, it's as simple as that. This is why she's a 2 core, fulfilling the passion of pride. Fe is archetypical in 2s and can very well be selfish or selfless depending on the context.

About the image types, If the 4 inherently sees themselves below others and sees others as influential, the 3 feels important to others and sees others as influential, the 2 LOVES to feel important in other people's lives and actively ensures to remain influential while inherently seeing others not as significant as them.

Nico obviously fits 2 there, as she has shown time and time again to be competitive with the other members. She thinks highly of herself, wants to outshine the others and have everyone accept she is the better idol, worthy of center position. Nico can get very annoyed at Eli for taking away the spotlight from her, as she feels she is very beautiful and mature (bruh). Let it be known, she doesn't just want to be a great idol, she wants to be the BEST.

Now that you know that her abrasive personality stems from being a 2, let's further debunk 3 for her. As I've mentioned about 3 before, Nico obviously fits the description of 2 involving social images. She puts herself on too much of a pedestal to be valued by others to be a 3.

3s show vanity in the most clear fashion through constant self-deception. And I understand that she may fit the value of what society values themselves, and her need of recognition. I can even understand her catchphrase being her way to lie to fit some sort of public image.

But here's the issue with 3 and SO3, she isn't strategic in the manner of the SO3, nor does she value efficiency in the aspect of reception for criticism. Nico fails the adaptability of the 3, in the way that they are chameleons in creating presented images of themselves. Nico often takes pride in herself and easily takes offense when her ego is hurt.

In fact, it's a running gag in the show that she's ignored by the other members when she claims she's the better idol. A 3 wouldn't showcase this much defense out of their need of acknowledgement, rather wanting to stay more humbled in order to be more efficient towards achieving goals for their image. Nico has more of a firm stance on what she sees herself to be, whereas SO3s are always changing their image to fit the values of a social group.

Nico was introduced as someone who was jealous and bitter toward the girls for being able to start a school idol group that didn't fall apart and had high morale, when Nico herself had created a club before and failed maintaining results. She did this out of her shattered ego. Her expectations were too hard for the others to live up to, and this is why she failed during her first-year making the school idol club. She held these standards because this is how she applied herself, to achieve the most recognition and love out of it. She has a good sense of self-importance, and needs recognition and love to keep it in check.

Now let's talk about why she's a SP2. If it wasn't obvious enough, her overall demeanor and catchphrase make this very clear. Not only does Nico LOOK small, childish, in her attitudes and physical features, but she charms people in the way that a child does towards their parents to receive something.

This is the seductive nature of the SP2, using infantility to imply need for tenderness, fragility, while also implying self-centeredness, and evasion of responsibilities. Nico wants put herself first for her desires of pride. The SP2 has a drive to put one's pride to get ahead everyone, and has need to feel worthy of being in the center attention, combining this childish seduction while also being temperamental when it comes to frustrations. I think I've already explained well enough for you that Nico nails these descriptions exactly.

Nico often resorts to emotional manipulation to achieve satisfaction of her needs, like the SP2. She feels entitled to receive attention and expect some kind of preferential treatment, and likes to do favors and be accommodating to receive love and attention in return. It pleases her to have the right to be compensated back for her favors, loving the expectation to deserve that right. When she doesn't get her way for this, she complains, fitting the SP2's egocentric and arrogant traits

To debunk SO2, I say that she doesn't fit the cold and social seduction of them. If Nico was a SO2, her leadership qualities would shine better and she wouldn't have failed so hard during her time as the leader in the school idol group she created. She would be more efficient in working with people and keep more in track of their morale. The SO2's pride is more reflected on this conquest of the social group, being an excellent social climber.

Whereas for the SP2, pride is turned onto themselves as a way to secure themselves. They inherently are more invested in their selfish need for it, and have more emphasis on wanting to be taken care of instead, but still working hard to satisfy their desires, using physical favor and accommodation as a way to induce entitlement.

This makes them the most selfish and avaricious 2. They are still the least prideful 2 because they are the most subtle about it compared to the other subtypes outwardly. Nico fits the latter well. SO2s have efficient networking and gathering of social connections, with an eccentric style that doesn't see the consequences of their condescension.

Nico hasn't shown enough evidence of this and is not as cool with her emotions that a SO2 is. A more proper example of a SO2 is Monika from DDLC. Nico's catchphrase is not enough to merit the SO2's conquest of the public, and it fits toward her childlike charm of the SP2.

With this argument wrapping up, I know I'm saying 'selfish' a lot in this argument and a lot of my argument has a lot of negative connotations for her along with being a 2, but I'd like to address this on how I feel about her as a character. In her case, the selfishness is understandable and pretty ironic, which makes it incredibly respectful imo.

Let's actually talk about her catchphrase since I bring it up so often, but it means "smile" and she often accompanies it with a sentence that is supposed to endear and uplift the person she's saying it to with joy and love. This resembles her need to make other people smile, she's selfish for attention and love but she does genuinely care for others and wants it in return for making people happy because she never got enough love at home.

Selfishness =/= bad, it's only bad when you hurt and use others as a result. Hers is what makes her deep. Since then, Nico has learned and developed a lot from the negatives of the SP2, and I genuinely think she's a pretty great example of a 2 with a positive goal and growth as a character.

At the end of the movie and overall, she became more humble and realized the essence of an idol is within the unity of the group, rather than an individual. She says out loud she is the number one idol, but has a dream of shining even brighter with μ's, stating it's the best and number one idol group. Yeah, definitely still and will forever be a 2 to me lol

Hope I've convinced you and this profile for the better <3

A lot of my explanations are heavily paraphased by sources. Here they are:
Naranjo's works:
https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/909577585686622319/992550370381402112/27_Personalities_In_Search_Of_Being_-_English.pdf
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1RGt33uYeruUj18Efus4z_D6grVnyl2hZ/view
Maitri, S. (2001). "The Spiritual Dimension of the Enneagram"
Chestnut, B. (2021). "The Enneagram Guide to Waking Up"

B - ENTP: At first she could seem ENTJ but she just has tons of Fe, even if for her own reasons she is always considering how her actions will affect other people and adapting herself to make them happy, for example with her family. Also, her own reason to become an idol is "An idol's job isn't to show people their smiles, it is to make people smile" which seems very Fe. On the second season of the anime when she competes with Honoka for the position of leader, she isn't doing this because she wants to be in that position but because Honoka was giving up on being an idol which already had happened to Nico and she suffered with it, so she wanted to help Honoka avoid the suffering she went through and started the competition so Honoka could find her motivation again, which is a great example of her Fe.
I don't think she is an ESTP because between Ne and Se she seems much more focused on what-ifs than how the situation really is, for example in this manga scene where she is thinking about a way to get into A-Rise show and spots Eli and Nozomi: https://imgur.com/a/GA158RL
Instead of looking at things how they are (Se), she always looks for possibilities in the external enviroment (Ne), like when she saw Eli was making an upset face and started considering possibilities (some even unreal) instead of concluding Eli was upset.
She also considers the consequences of her actions and has no problem for "planning" even if in an improvising manner, as seem when she was thinking about entering the show and instead of making a metodical step-by-step plan, she just improvised with something she thought would make sense and she saw was a possibility.

C - ENFJ: She is stupidly hard to type for no reason. And it doesnt help that she's a walking facade.
But there's one thing im sure of. Nico is a Fe user. You have to be blind to miss how obvious it is. She plays it off by being agressive and harsh but her intentions always are good.
Honoka wanted to quit. She wanted to give up, and Nico saw this and did everything to help her, because she didn't want her to give up as a idol, and didn't want her to end up like her.
Her message itself as a idol is very Fe, and while it isn't the best example, she wants everyone to smile.
When Maki was composing Yume no Tobira she read maki's line of thought
"I have to make this song for the third years"
And she also said this:
"Songs are for everyone, no matter the reason." "Im the club's president. Its natural for me to act like this."
I am 100% sure Nico Yazawa is a Fe user. And that's about it. She's too tricky and bothersome to type, even more than Maki.
