
name        : Nozomi Tojo
kanji       :  東條 希
color       : #c455f6
mbti        : INFJ(303), ENFJ(34)

(idol.st)
background:
Nozomi is a third-year student and the former vice-president of the school's student council, being succeeded by Umi Sonoda. She is originally from the Kansai region, and it is shown in Season 2 Episode 8 that she and her family had moved around for most of her childhood. However, she speaks in a relaxed Kansai dialect after having lived there for a few years during her childhood. She is fluent in a few other languages as well, including English. She is best friends with Eli Ayase.

In the manga, Nozomi isn't in the student council; instead, she is the only member left in the Supernatural Phenomenon Research Society, a club that she attempted to recruit Eli into. In addition to this, she grew up in Akihabara and adopted her dialect to match her fondness for the supernatural.

Since the first episode, Nozomi has shown her support for Honoka's group and their dream for being school idols, helping them find ways to work around Eli's orders so they can succeed on their dream, though she does help them directly as well. After Eli joins μ's on Season 1 Episode 8, she joins the group as well since she always wanted to do something with who she considers her friends. She is also the person behind the name of μ's; she decided it since it was the pronunciation for "Muse", which are what the nine Greek goddesses and daughters of Zeus are known as, and she knew the nine girls would eventually come together like them.

Nozomi was Otonokizaka High School's student council vice-president before Umi succeeded the position. During the time Honoka and her friends are forming μ's, she also finds an interest in helping them as much as possible, often finding a way to work around Eli's orders.

personality:
As the former vice-president of the student council and the eldest member of μ's, Nozomi appears as a pretty wise, mysterious and mature girl with an almost all-knowing vibe to her, due to her tarot reading and fortune-telling skills. She's gentle and kind, as well as rather conspirative, usually being the first person to advise μ's whenever they run into an obstacle or trouble, and will usually remain calm and collected during most situations. This carries on even after joining μ's.

Nozomi has a very mischievous side, often teasing the other girls and causing them to get flustered. At times, she can seem perverted as well, as she sometimes threatens to punish some of the members of μ's by grabbing their breasts from behind, her most common target being Nico. This is most prominently seen in Season 1 Episode 7, in order to keep Honoka, Rin and Nico into studying and not fail their exams. This punishment was deemed the "washi washi" by Nozomi herself.

While mischievous, Nozomi also cares deeply for the other girls, and she highly cherishes the friendships the group has formed between them. An example of this is on Season 1 Episode 10, when she noted Maki wasn't getting along well with the other girls, as she tries to bring Maki closer to them. In Season 2 Episode 8, it is also shown that since Nozomi and her family had moved around for most of her childhood, she was very shy and never really had any friends. She began to break out of her shell after meeting Eli, even though she is still unable to bring herself to approach anybody else until Honoka decides to form μ's. Nozomi states in the same episode she had always wanted to do something with her friends, and considers the nine members' friendships with the other a miracle.

(namu.wiki)

introduction:
Power spots these days[16] This is trending, but do you know that humans also have proper spiritual power? We think of idols as people who have such power and send it to everyone. Yes♡ So please accept the power we send! With the injection of Nozomi Power, good things will happen today♡ Let's look forward and do our best today!


(wikipedia)
Nozomi is the third-year student council vice-president and the oldest of the group. She acts as the voice of reason to Eli, who was the first friend she made after spending her whole school life transferring from one place to another due to her parents' work, choosing to live by herself in order to stay in Otonokizaka. She also acts as the spiritually leader of the group, and has an almost all-knowing vibe to her, acting when she knew things got too far and even naming the group based on events that were yet to happen. Although she is not from that region, Nozomi speaks in Kansai dialect. Her hobby is fortune-telling, and she uses it to quickly fit in at a new school whenever she is forced to move. Despite having a serene personality, she has a rather mischievous side to her: she can be perverted - being prone to groping the other girls' breasts when she finds them distracted or depressed as a form of "cheering them up".

(reddit opinion)

A: 
My best girl not just in muse but in the entire series!

She is so incredibly kind hearted and I think she doesn’t get the credit she deserves. Albeit subtly, she led everyone down the right paths that would lead them to finding the group and the courage that would allow them to join it.

Her past has a lot to do w this. She moved around all the time and her parents were nonexistent so she spent her childhood in isolation. But despite her loneliness she was still a light to everyone else bc she didn’t want them to suffer from that same feeling that she didn’t. And that’s why she wanted to see everyone together and got them to do so.

S2e8 is my fav ep bc it explores this side of her that’s been unseen but hinted at thru her behavior this entire time. when maki said and confirmed like yes girl, we’re all ur besties, and she looked into the cup of tea and saw her lonely childhood self smile for the first time bc she’d finally found companionship, holy shit that scene always breaks me. It’s so bittersweet. Like she can finally give that lonely child the friendship she always needed

I also think her fake Kansai dialect is funny like it’s so random and for what 😭

As for the tarot cards, I don’t believe in that stuff but my mom does so it was pretty cool to see a character that’s into it

Purple is also my fav color

Oh and also, Kussun! She’s so fun. I loved when she was in the livestreams. She’s so perfect for bringing our beloved Nontan to life

I love Nozomi a ton, any appreciation post of her makes me so happy to see~ 💜💜💜🌙🌙🌙

B: The cards say… it’s Nozomi time!

As many people say, Nozomi’s groping shenanigans are a rather unfortunate mark on an otherwise wonderful character. I’m more willing to blame it on early 2010’s anime culture rather than an objective part of her character, so I’m going to ignore it and focus on the wonderful myriad of things this girl brings to the table.

Nozomi is the kind of girl who is both quite airheaded, but also knows exactly what is going to happen and exactly how to deal with everything. She’s kind, gentle, deeply caring for everyone else around her, but will almost never take action on her own. Why doesn’t she just go tell Eli to join Mu’s from the get-go, why doesn’t she go reconcile with Nico after all this time?

Nozomi is a girl who understands everyone around her, almost to a fault, and realizes that it’s not always best to go out of her way to solve their problems. It’s most like she knows the plot of the show already, and is just along for the ride. It makes her so enjoyable to watch, and by far one of the most comforting characters to get to see.

Nozomi’s journey is a bit more subtle than many of the other girls through the show. From the beginning, she was supportive of Mu’s, and has a huge hand in getting the group together. She already fit in perfectly as a mediator and a relaxed older girl that others could rely on. For most of season one, Nozomi really undergoes most of her character development through the rest of the group. By helping out the other girls when she can, she’s able to make new friends and connections. But we don’t get to see too much about her until season 2.

Nozomi’s big episode, the lead up to the snowhalation episode, gives us a lot of insight into some other aspects of her character, and helps us understand a bit of how Nozomi grows. Nozomi, for most of the show, has been following along with everyone else, and doing her best to support the other girls along the way. Her wanting to write a love song, one that uses everyone’s melodies, is the first real time she wants to take action and do something special for the group. In my mind, Nozomi realizes that she can take a more active role in vocalizing her desires, and she has people around her that will listen and support her, just like she does for everyone else.

Nozomi’s relationships with most of the cast feel very natural if you understand her character. She manages to connect with Maki on a level (because she’s dealt with Eli for a while), she supports Hanayo and Rin’s goals, she acts as a mentor/advisor for the second years in the student council, and while there isn’t too much screentime showing it, I think Nozomi definitely has a soft spot for Nico.

But of course, her relationship with Eli deserves its own section. Aside from the large amount of semi-canonical content we get featuring the two of them, their dynamic in the show is incredibly natural and complex. Their personalities and mannerisms blend together seamlessly, and you really get to feel like they understand each other on a very deep level. I talked a bit about this during the Eli discussion, but seriously, Garasu no Hanazono isn’t even subtext at this point. It’s just text.

As a final note, Nozomi and Eli were one of the first things I learned about many years ago before I ever got into Love Live. The two of them have a very special place in my heart, and the more I learn about them both, the more I come to enjoy it.

TLDR: 100/10 for the wish girl. Kussun, if you ever go back to watch the old content, is hilarious, and does a wonderful job voicing her. NozoEli legendary Z-tier ship.

C: In another timeline... she would say it´s time to du-du-du-du-du-duel! (or maybe she would just show us an uno reverse card, who knows).

Nozomi is one of the characters of Muse that I liked a lot, as she was the calm and cool type of character that always had a plan on her mind, and she defintely pulls it off perfectly, shown on how she was supportive of the group from the very beginning, how she orchestrated the group name and united some of the members, the slow encouraging she gave to Maki to slowly open her up to Honoka, and how she lowered Eli´s barriers so she could also join them, she had a wish and she fulfilled it, and I respect her a lot for it.

Her grappler capabilities besides, she is a really kind person that really does care for everyone in Muse, in which she doesn´t get enough credit, but we all know she´s always there to help in times of trouble, or to start the trouble to begin with, cough cough pillow fight, which makes her a really enjoyable character, as her relationship with the others were not as flashy, but still very important for the group, with how she gave advice to the second years despite Eli confronting them in S1, how she managed to get Nico into passing her exams (love how both gremlins from Muse and Niji were bad at maths), connecting with Maki to take her out from her isolation which after tha came to help herself as well, supporting the other first years, and how despite Eli and her having opposite personalities, they can complement each other really well and always compensate for the lack of the other.

And of course, she´s not inmune to having her own troubles and insecurities, her self isolation definitely hit quite hard, and made me understand a lot better why Nozomi and Eli sticked so well together, which S2 did a great job explaining and solving, as the group she schemed to create was the one that helped her take the step forward and create a song she "centered"(I know that it was decided by lottery and it is technically a triangle, but her being in the center back really was being accurate in the fact that the song was her wish fulfilled). I loved that they just didn´t left her as a genius mastermind that acts in the background and actually gave as a reason of why she is so good at reading people and letting her express a wish for the entire group, the Snow Halation build-up episode was one of my favourites.

Would have definitely liked to see more about her background tho, as OP said about how NozoEli came together, the reason why she got into tarot, or even some content about her with the fisrt years, but in the end I am happy with what we have, glad for all her (and Kussun) contributions to the series, definitely grateful for the laughs she brought me through my time watching Muse.

Favourite song is clearly Garasu no Hanazono, and I hope I don´t have to explain why. NozoEli is one of the best LL! ships, and who says otherwise will have their shoes stolen in the spot by her to be thrown and hanged in the streets of NYC.

Sorry for being a bit late, had a 12h flight to a country that for reasons I have yet to investigate (Google, most probably), Reddit is not accessible, which I am thankful to have come prepared with a vpn on pc, which is why I don´t have my greek keyboard to write Muse how I used to, and otherwise I would have missed this post as well. Might be late for the next weekly discussion, but I will still be looking forward to it.

D: I will not be talking about Nozomi's sexual harrassment bit, because my opinion is set and I don't want pointless slapfights.

If it didn't exist though, she'd undoubtedly be my favourite μ's character, and definitely in my top 5 Love Live characters too. If I had to pick a second-in-command for μ's it would be Nozomi; her masterminding of the entire group was excellent. I love how she appears as this bumbling airhead but is actually a sharp genius when it comes to reading people, it's a trope I adore and Nozomi does it to perfection. Mixing this in with the tarot and giving μ's its mythological roots was also very clever.

Despite this Nozomi has a lot of deep-seated troubles, and I like how the group she helps found helps her deal with them in turn. The isolation and loss she felt her whole life was crushing, and μ's (and the company of Eli) must have been the most welcome relief after that. You really see the content happiness in Nozomi throughout S2, I think out of any μ's member she is the most grateful for the group's existence.

A criticism I do have though is, I wish we saw more of what drew her and Eli together. Obviously there's the Student Council work, and it's clear they have a deep love for each other, but I want to know more. I'd love to find out how Nozomi broke through Eli's tough exterior, and how Eli allowed her lol.

E: Nozomi is one of my favorite µ's girls, perhaps even the second most favorite just after Nico.

Early on in the anime I really did not like her tendency to grope the other girls, though they somewhat toned it down later on.

Otherwise I have a huge soft spot for Nozomi, her story of being lonely is quite touching, especially when we see how much she appreciates her friends and how long she struggled to reach out to help everyone.

Then there's the whole context of Snow Halation that hits even harder when you know how the song is formed within the show.

And then in the manga of course she is great, I love how she uses benevolent manipulations to push people towards happiness, such as when she helps Nico win a lottery but then kind of forces her to invite and treat everyone for a trip to a restaurant which uses up most of the money she won, but then Nico is still happy because she got to spend time with her friends like that. Or that moment with Rin and Nozomi on the roof at night, which is also a great Rin moment.

Nozomi is great.

F: The goddess who started Muse - against her severe loneliness shown in her character ep.

"My wish - Watashi no Nozomi". Another signature character name pun in the anime world, following into the footsteps of DB, Sailor Moon, Eva, PMMM, and the like.

Nozomi as little girl with braids like Homura Akemi and without glasses from the beginning. But she never would fully open her hair = she would never fully close her mind and heart like Homura.

And her chessmaster skills would implode during the Tomodachi meltdown that she wasn't prepared for. Quite the contrast to Dia who after MariKanan's epochal clash would still pull off a big reveal in "Young Dreamer", and presumably remain in her chessmaster position until the very end (a topic of its own, i.e. Dia's topic.)

After this the situation would grow shakier and shakier: Birb's almost-departure, Maki unable to protest when the nee LL requires a new song to be written per round, Umi going berserk in the weightloss ep, Rin getting tricked into wearing a cliche-femininity wedding dress against her nature...

Nozomi as chessmaster and puppeteer too is against her nature, but Muse manage to safely catch her as well.

The result: Snow Halation, the LL song of all LL songs so far. ( If there ever was another Voyager mission in an attempt of showing aliens terrestrian cultural goods, and if any anime songs made it on the record or by now HDD or flash drive or whatever, then Snow Halation would be the only LL song with a slight chance of making it into the final top 10 or 20 for the final decision...)

Nozomi's stabilizer: Eli, who delivered her welcome speech to the class in a manner similar to Kyon's.

So NozoEli = HaruhiKyon? Then it would be another quite shaky ship. Another standard plot point of LL's.

Nozomi's English skills meanwhile might come from her lonely situation again: Hanging around in the internet and in international chatrooms. The side effect: She learned a lil better how to talk in English. And also her parents move a lot and so she may have seen some foreign lands. Another frequent LL topic.

Nozomi as one of the character concepts that laid quite a few key foundations.

(personality-database.com opinion)

A: Why 2 core? Don’t see any pride in her, or other characteristics of a Two for that matter. Just because she‘s nice and caring doesn’t mean she‘s a Two.

I was actually thinking social Nine. It’s common for so9s to be mistyped as 2s, but they’re actually quite different. Nines don’t feel entitled to people‘s love and appreciation on the level that Twos do and are less dependent on it. They‘re also more emotionally steady.

"She began to break out of her shell after meeting Eli, even though she is still unable to bring herself to approach anybody else until Honoka decides to form μ's. Nozomi states in the same episode she had always wanted to do something with her friends, and considers the nine members' friendships with the other a miracle."

This excerpt from her description confirmed it for me. Twos are much more willing to take the initiative when approaching others, they almost "chase" after people. Nines however, even social Nines, are more withdrawn at their core.

B: tarot cards aside. this episode: https://9anime.id/watch/love-live-school-idol-project-2nd-season.v74/ep-4

is the peak of her ni-fe. the way she was the only one who came to a conclusion about how nico felt, about why she called muse her back up dancers without nico telling her directly or without getting any proof is how ni can work. nozomi has obviously collected data by using her se to help her ni come to conclusion.
what she remembered about nico, nico's siblings, being called back up dancers, the edited pictures. then her ni, unconsciously put those together to help her come to conclusion. for short, ni-fi (INFJ) users stereotypically can understand how one feels, know how one feels without ever having to get them to say it directly, without ever getting physical proof saying "this is how i feel". all they need to do is observe the situation and unconsciously come to a conclusion. which was shown in the episode,
also she is far too focused on her internal world to be an ENFJ. by internal world i mean her intuition. (take the tarot cards as an example and how she came to a conclusion like i said earlier)
