
name        : Rin Hoshizora
kanji       : 星空 凛
color       : #fff832
mbti        : ESFP(207), ESFJ(7)

(idol.st)
background:
Rin is a first-year student who has been friends with Hanayo Koizumi since they were children. She is quite athletic and optimistic. She is very well known for having a huge heart for cats and for acting like them; she tends to utter nya~! (meow), either as a way to end her sentences or to show her happiness. In addition, she sometimes acts like a cat and does the signature curved-mouth look.

As a child, Rin was often teased for wearing skirts. Because of this, she decided to avoid wearing skirts and dresses in public, other than for her uniform. This insecurity is later what contributes to her inability to see herself as fit for a school idol, even though she really likes the idea of being one. Even so, she later joins μ's on Season 1 Episode 4 alongside Hanayo and her fellow classmate Maki, supporting the former in her endeavor to become a school idol. 

personality:
Rin appears to be a bit of a tomboy, though with a girly streak. She likes sports and is arguably the most athletic member of μ's, on par with Eli. Like Honoka, Rin is very energetic, hard-working and active; her hard-working personality is notably displayed in Season 1 Episode 7, where she, Honoka, and Nico had to work hard to pass exams in order to enter the Love Live! tournament. Together, the three are known as the "san baka (三馬鹿 lit. Three idiots)". One key difference between her and Honoka, however, is that Rin is known for being very mindful of other people's opinions, as she puts their feelings first before taking action into something. This is shown multiple times throughout the anime.

Part of Rin's tomboyish personality stems from the fact she was teased by her classmates for wearing skirts and dresses in public, to the point she stopped wearing them as often, and wore shorts or pants instead. This insecurity later grew into a complex as time passed, to the point she no longer wore skirts or dresses, other than for her uniform or her idol outfits. This is also further compounded by her petite body shape. With the help of her friends, on Season 2 Episode 5, Rin is able to get over this complex due to being the center of a live performance where she has to wear a dress, and she is fully able of embracing her feminine side, wearing skirts once again.

Rin has a very mischievous side, and likes to playfully tease her best friend Hanayo. She also likes hugs, and has attempted to hug every member of μ's. As stated above, she enjoys acting like a cat, complete with a curved mouth reminiscent of one, which also translates to her energetic and mischievous self.

(namu.wiki)

introduction:
I'm Hoshizora Rin, 15 years old, confident in my running and stamina! My favorite sports are hurdles and soccer... I guess? I'm short and completely far from being a beauty, but I'm confident in my health! So I want to share this energy with everyone. I'm always late to the start and a bit of a crybaby, but I'd be happy if you cheered for Rin! In return, I'll do anything Rin can~☆

(wikipedia)
Rin is an athletic first-year student skilled in sports such as hurdling, soccer, and basketball. She is a tomboy, and like Honoka, she has a cheerful and energetic personality, but loses motivation easily. She is best friends with Hanayo, who she tends to look after, and has a habit of ending her sentences with "-nya" (the Japanese equivalent word for "meow"). She has a complex about looking "cute" due to an incident in her childhood in which several boys made fun of her for attempting to dress in more feminine attire, but is eventually able to put the incident behind her with the help of her friends in μ's and begins to express her femininity more.

(reddit opinion)

A: 
Rin 🌟 

I love her energetic nature! The unique thing about her though is she also seems a bit shy, so the contrast is interesting. 

Her voice is pretty and Lily White gives Rin a chance to show off her vocals really well. 

Her relationship with Kayo-Chin seems really pure and they really care about each other. They push each other forward, so their friendship is strong! 

Rin is funny, loyal, and cute! 🌟

B: Nyaa! It’s Rin time.

Rin is one of the characters in school idol project that I wish we could’ve had more screentime with. She is always an absolute joy to watch, and her boundless energy, athletics, and various cat mannerisms just seem to make me feel warm and fuzzy. Her introductory episode, and Love Wing Bell were both amazing, but Rin doesn’t seem to get too much time in the spotlight aside from that.

That’s why, when out of nowhere she breaks into song in the SIP movie felt so fun and enjoyable. She just runs out of the hotel (I think it was the hotel) and starts singing and suddenly we have a full on musical number.

Rin often is characterized by two main traits, her felinity and her tomboyishness. I sort of wish that she had more time to develop beyond that, and I often look to having more of a character for Rin as a marker of good fan work. In terms of character growth, other people have already said plenty about her journey towards moving away from societal expectations of being a tomboy, which already is a very unique plot line. For her, being able to embrace being more traditionally feminine is her way of accepting herself, and overcoming her own anxieties.

You can’t really talk about Rin without her Hanayo. Their dynamic is believable from the first moment you see them, and they play off of each other so well. It’s different from Nozomi and Eli’s relationship, but you immediately understand Hanayo’s more introvertedness being matched with Rin’s outgoing self.

But what really makes the two of them work well together is how Hanayo understands Rin’s more emotional side, and just like how Rin pushed Hanayo to follow her dreams, Hanayo pushed Rin to understand herself better.

Rin also serves as a hilarious foil to Maki’s tsundere attitude, she just takes everything at face value and charges ahead, so Maki’s standoffishness does literally nothing.

Another thing I would enjoy about more Rin screentime is more interactions between her and her upperclassmen. I feel like Hanayo and Maki got enough time for that, but Rin not as much.

Okay I’m going to have one last section for this. For anyone that didn’t know, Rin and Hanayo are (at least according to the manga, which has questionable continuity with the Anime) an actual couple. Their confession (and marriage proposal lmao) is one of the sweetest things, and I strongly recommend everyone go check it out, even if you’ve already read it 100 times like me.

TLDR: 15/10 for the catgirl. Rippi does a phenomenal job with her voice. RinPana legendary Z-tier ship, the only canon(?) ship in the entire franchise. I would love to see her reaction to Happy Nyan Days

C:
Rin is such an energetic character, to the point it’s really contagious, it’s really fun to see her interactions and how she complements the other first years with her personality.

As it was mentioned already, she unfortunately didn’t receive much of a spotlight during the series, but I think her moments were quite funny, from her pulling Hanayo along with her, her nya trait, how she danced in the rooftop and then it rained on her, or how easily she can make Maki blush or how she can be pushing Eli without getting scolded, same for the summer camp episode, she’s honestly such a mood.

Her character arc is wholesome, from pushing Hanayo to follow her dreams, how she faces her insecurities to be getting the push from Hanayo and Maki to overcome them, it’s such an unique plot that I didn’t expect to find.

Another thing I loved from her was her dynamic with the other first years that, as Isaac explained, she really complements Hanayo and Maki well, and I feel like if she was left unsupervised with Honoka, they could probably create one hell of a mess when having fun.

While not my favourite, Rin is such a likeable character, and I’m totally glad I got her signed card from the SIF2 WS cards. Rippi did an amazing job with her.

D: 
Rin is cute and I really like her little character arc.

Seeing a more tomboy-ish girl embrace her girly side isn't something you see that often, especially nowadays, and she ended up really cute.

It's a bit sad that some have a somewhat unwholesome interpretation of her arc, but what can you do.

My only criticism towards Rin would be that in the manga she feels a bit flanderized, not that she doesn't have her moments, but she feels a bit flatter than basically every other character and they turned up her naivety so much that it feels kind of forced.

There's also a chapter which as far as I understand is official content, but contradicts another chapter.

I don't remember the exact places and I'll put it in spoilers.

Basically in the older chapter Maki discovers that Santa isn't real due to Nico's sister accidentally telling her, Hanayo and Maki try to cheer Maki up and assure her that Santa is totally real, but then Nico overhears, teases Maki, brings her to tears and Nico promises she will be Maki's santa, which is a cute NicoMaki moment.

However in a later chapter It is Rin who suddenly believes in Santa and gets her believe broken and Maki is one of the people trying to cheer Rin up and assure her. Which completely switches the roles of who believes in Santa and who knows the truth.

But maybe I am overthinking that since the canonicity of certain manga might be questionable.

Anyway, Rin is cute and has a great focus episode and a great song to go with her character development.

E: Onto Rin: I've personally never really been one to care for, like, gender roles and stuff. I try not to think in terms of what's manly or womanly, because I think that's just restrictive. "I can't do that because it's not manly", "I can't do that because it's not womanly"-- what's the point in saying that? All I think you're doing is making your world smaller.

And I think Rin was a great character to explore this problem. She tends to like more stereotypically "manly" activities like track + field, and she keeps her hair short in a "tomboyish" manner. But she doesn't want this to restrict her, as shown by her continuous interest in the other "girly" side of things. I don't remember Rin ever describing herself as a tomboy or anything similar, and any such accusations thrown her way were from ill-intended people looking to stereotype.

Freeing herself of this prescribed label with the bridal shoot and embracing her broad variety of interests was a great conclusion to her story. You could say Love Live running with the "tomboy grappling with wearing a dress" trope is overdone, but I think that reduces Rin to something she's not. Again, I never remember Rin seeing herself as a tomboy-- it's only something pushed onto her. I think it makes sense that a lot of people who struggle with presentation or identity issues relate to Rin, her story is very compelling in that regard.

And even that aside, Rin's got a really nice personality. Her happy go-lucky mentality was really funny at times, along with her poor grades. The Rin scene in my mind is when she does all those backflips on the roof and it starts raining on her lol, she's so stupid you can't help but like her.

F: In 2015 LWB was the first ever thing from LL in general that I happened to bump into. It was rly a breath of fresh and lighthearted air at first glance and made LL look to me like some sort of relaxed afterwork anime...

...trope name: red herring.

Because soon the darker plot points and character arcs would hit me.

Rin's LWB arc was such a plot point:

Being bullied for her "lack of femininity" and soon internalizing it. And so she would always try to avoid any confrontation with "feminine phenomena" like school idols, while at the same time longing for them - namely the school idols...

And the whole "The New Me" thing was full of very symbolic scenes:

the smaller µ's pressuring (bullying!) Rin into becoming their temporal leader (most symbolic also: 6 as even number with no "symmetry-defining center")

the 2nd years are missing and cannot keep the dymanics on track. Eli the "most reasonable authority" not managing to fulfil this job, Nozomi the former "chessplayer" neither (she lost control from "Tomodachi" on, a maximum contrast to Dia the female Lelouch imo)

the audience at that fashion event expecting a "fake femininity", leading to that cliche wedding dress that's more damaging than helpful

symbolized also by RinKayo fighting over the right not to wear this dress

Rin looking "boyish" and prefering a "boyish" demeanor - so what? A debate to gain full fuel in the late 2010s after Rin's character ep in 2014 (which also proves how far ahead of its time Sailor Moon was)

another Maho Shojo anime that LWB unmistakably refers to: Wedding Peach. The famous emblem: Heart with wings and bell - love-wing-bell. And both WP's and SIP's female uniforms are from Gogo Yubari / Kill Bill. I call that "reference chain". Another most symbolic one. So Rin's truly suffering a lot. Why not allow her to be "The Real Me" as Shizuku's phrasing later would go?

This also includes Rin's ability to turn the "kitty" into a "tiger", mostly on Nico in "The New Me". Actually a useful skill if used right. (Anime reference: CCS with the fake little Kero vs the true Keroberos tiger). But the other people want a fake girlishness - including the smaller µ's...

So at this point µ's are truly past their prime and a disbandment would be unavoidable. The later groups managed to make better decisions, and they were luckier.

And the kitty story once again has a darker background to it, once again revealed by the one and only SID: Rin with her cat hair allergy unable to take in a kitty - a subarc to return with Yoshiko and Laelaps (whom she did get in the end in GnY. The strange phenomenon: If a character rly "wants" something, then the writer(s) might end up obeying. But Yoshiko also wanted angel wings to fly up into the sky... also most symbolical for Rin: Love "Wing" Bell. So this fake femininity rly would do her no good and she ought to stay true to both her "Rin Boy" and "Rin Nya" schticks.