
name        : Umi Sonoda
kanji       : 園田 海未
color       : #1769ff 
mbti        : ISTJ(255), ESTJ(9)

(idol.st)
background:
Since she was young, Umi has been Honoka Kosaka and Kotori Minami's childhood friend, thanks to Honoka inviting her to play a game of hide-and-seek. She is also a member of the school's archery club, which she is quite good at. She believes Honoka is bossy and pushy, but also realizes the perks of having an adventurous friend. Among the members of μ's, Umi takes the role of being their physical trainer.

Umi has a far older sister who has already moved out. Her father is a martial-arts trainer while her mother teaches traditional Japanese dance; as a result, Umi is expected to inherit the combined dojo of both. As the heiress to her lineage's legacy, she is burdened with the responsibility of carrying on her family's traditional Japanese practices and techniques. She also is highly skilled in kyūdō (弓道), or the Japanese martial art of archery. Predictably, Umi's traditional upbringing is reflected in her personality and behavior.

Umi becomes the group's main lyricist, and writes the song "START:DASH!!", along with most of the rest of their songs. She also trained the members of the group before Eli Ayase took over the role. She either created the dance steps for START:DASH!! or aided Kotori in coming up with the choreography.

Starting in the second season, she becomes Otonokizaka High School's new student-council vice president, taking over the role from Nozomi Tojo. She likes reading as well.

personality:
Umi has the qualities of a yamato nadeshiko, or a proper and traditional Japanese lady. As such, she is generally shy when having to interact with unfamiliar people. Even with those she is comfortable with, she seems to act reserved by default unless provoked. She is highly intelligent and a very logical solution-seeker. Above all, she is extremely disciplined--nearly to a fault-- and as a result can often be hard on others. This is exemplified in Season 2 Episode 7 when she forces Honoka and Hanayo to do long training hours after they gain a bit of weight. However, this is never motivated by feelings of malice or dislike aimed at her friends. Umi is often overly strict towards her friends, but is the most unforgiving with/hardest on herself. She despises laziness, shortcuts, and/or cheating; she instead places a lot of value in hard work and perseverance.

As self-destructive as this may be, these qualities combined with Umi's strong will makes her well-suited to leadership, which she often utilizes by being one of the main organizers of logistical or business-related action items for µ's. Where her leadership skills lack in sociability, she makes up in organizational excellence. This, in tandem with Umi's inclination to stay in the background when she can, makes Umi the perfect second-in-command to Honoka's leadership in µ's. In this manner, the two operate perfectly as the primary leaders in µ's. Honoka establishes and maintains µ's core of friendship and love for both members and fans alike through her ability to unify, inspire, and motivate. Umi facilitates the less enjoyable, yet arguably more vital, aspects of their idol work.

The foil between Honoka and Umi's personalities affect areas outside of leading µ's. Honoka is more of a happy-go-lucky, modern day schoolgirl, which lead to her impulsive goal of becoming a school idol. Due to Umi's traditional values of proper ladylike behavior, Umi resisted Honoka's pleas for Umi to join her. Umi's strict moral compass made nearly all aspects of being an idol highly inappropriate and embarrassing for her. However, she is shown at times to entertain intrusive thoughts in which she acts entirely contrary to her code of proper behavior. One example of this is when in the middle of practicing archery, she imagines herself as a cheery and energetic idol saying (what will later become) her signature catchphrase "Love arrow, shoot!" (ラブアローシュート); Umi is greatly flustered and ashamed of even having such a thought. When she does eventually agree to becoming a school idol, she is at first uncomfortable with wearing short skirts and opts for pant shorts. However, she learns to get used to skirts as time goes on.

Despite her overall calm and collected personality, there are a few exceptions. In Season 1 Episode 10, the rest of µ's learns (the hard way) that Umi gets very grumpy and angry if she is woken up in the middle of sleeping. Season 2 Episode 5 reveals that Umi's moral aversion to dishonesty is also actually just a literal inability to lie: when playing Old Maid, Umi is painfully unable to keep a poker face. Any emotion she feels is immediately obvious by her facial expressions. In this way, Umi continually loses every game, which frustrates her, because she is entirely unaware of this behavior. Her persistence and determination causes her to repeatedly ask to play another game, but her unawareness of her emotive reactions does not relent.

Ultimately, although Umi is rather strict, especially towards Honoka, she is a genuinely kind person and a very loyal friend who does the best she can to help her friends. She's also well-mannered and always speaks politely, using "です" (desu), "ます" (masu), and other polite forms of speaking in her speech.

(namu.wiki)

introduction:
My name is Sonoda Umi, and I am 16 years old. My parents gave me this name so that I would become a woman with a heart as vast as the ocean and who continues to grow endlessly. I am not confident in dancing, and since I have only ever attended all-girls schools, I may not fully understand how men feel; however, since I am starting this, I want to aim for first place and give it my all. I would be happy if you thought of me, even for just a moment, in the smallest of things.

(wikipedia)
Umi is Honoka's classmate and childhood friend who is a member of the school's kyūdō club, in which she excels. She believes Honoka is a little bit bright and undisciplined but realizes the perks of having an adventured friend, and usually acts as the voice of reason among the second-year trio. She is the main lyricist of the group. Despite her strict personality, she is also kind. As the daughter of an iemoto mother and a shihan father,[9] Umi has expertise in kendo (long sword), koto (Japanese Zither), nagauta (Shamisen), shodō (Japanese creative writing), and nichibu (Japanese traditional dance). Umi is said to be very scary by Kotori when her sleep is disturbed by others during the training camp with the members of μ's. She later succeeds Nozomi as the student council vice president. Her catchphrase is "Love, Arrow, Shoot!"

(reddit opinion)

A:
Love Arrow Shoot! It’s Umi time.

Sonoda Umi personality wise can often be mapped onto someone like Eli, but I really see them as having different interpretations of the stricter but caring archetype. I find Eli to be more of a “push you forward” kind of character, while Umi is more of a “keep you safe” character. I find her antics with Honoka to be her way of expressing affection for her.

During season one, Umi often acts as the “straight man” (funny because she’s not either…) within the second years. Her dynamic with Honoka and Kotori is very endearing, and I love how the three of them take care of each other as they start on their journey to become school idols. Umi is a girl who is very much raised to be polite and shy, so watching her overcome her insecurities is a wonderful journey.

Something I love about Umi’s growth is that she doesn’t really change how she is as a person. She’s scared to give out fliers, she is scared to be dressed up like a school idols, and she thinks her lyrics are incredibly embarrassing. As time progresses, she is still one of the more shy characters, but she is more okay with stepping out of her comfort zone. It feels so much more realistic and a mature way of handling that sort of character growth.

Her big moments in season one aside from that are when it comes to Honoka and Kotori. Kotori tells her that she is going to go overseas, but Umi doesn’t have it in her to tell Honoka, but also doesn’t want to force Kotori to tell her before she’s ready. I think just as much as Kotori is struggling to make a decision about her life at this moment, Umi is also struggling between moving forwards with a different side of herself. She wants to be a school idol as well, but doesn’t want to get in the way of her closest friends. However, it’s Umi who ends up telling Honoka that Kotori is waiting for her to ask her to come back. Umi, interestingly, understands Kotori’s position the best; that she needs to be told that there is a choice she wants to make.

Season two doesn’t focus as much on personal growth for Umi, but she understands her relationship with Honoka and Kotori a lot better. The three of them are able to handle being the student council, and Umi understands that her friends don’t mind when she’s “no fun allowed” mode.

I do wish that Umi had more time to develop and interact with more of the cast, though. She does get along nicely with Eli, but I think her getting to talk more with the first years or other third years beyond making training regimens would have been fun.

TLDR: 15/10 for the ocean. I love her voice being a bit deeper than the other girls in song, Mimorin does a phenomenal job with her. HonoKotoUmi legendary Z-tier ship. I will fight to the death for it.

B: When I first watched SIP, I flip-flopped on Umi a lot. At first I thought she was a pretty decent straight-man, a nice anchor for the airheaded Honoka. But then I'd think man, she is harsh on Honoka at times, to the point where I'd kinda dislike her for it. The S1 slap struck me (ha) as unjustified, for example. But then I'd think, man, doesn't Honoka need harsh treatment? If no one was keeping her of all girls in check (or at least trying), wouldn't she just fall apart? And so on, in a loop.

I eventually settled and decided I liked Umi at the start of the movie, though. Her freakout at Honoka there struck me as completely justified, and her straight-laced mask slipping to show just how scared Honoka had made her was very emphatic. And this applied in retrospect: Umi is a pretty scaredy character, from her reluctance to being an idol to her getting all worked up at the romance movie in S2 lol. But with all the craziness that goes on in SIP her fear is almost always justified, she's a great character to emphatise with. She's almost the audience's anchor as much as Honoka's.

But still, I kinda feel her foundational relationship with Honoka is, I dunno. A bit shaky? I don't really remember them interacting much outside of Umi's scolding. I don't doubt they're friends, and you could say that's just Umi's way of showing love, but I wish I saw a bit more of them interacting on the same level, y'know? Like Umi's Sunshine counterpart Riko has tons of genuine moments with Chika while still scolding her a lot, but I don't remember Umi doing the same. Two friends of mine watched SIP and both of them thought Umi just settled for Honoka, out of fear for not being able to befriend anyone else. I don't agree, but I can definitely see how they got that impression.

I know Umi did help break through Eli a bit, and she briefly had the pseudo-subunit with her and Maki in Soldier Game. That's a great trio (both story-wise and singing-wise), but nothing ever came of it. I wish Umi was explored that bit more outside of Honoka, I guess.

C: My favourite initial character of μ’s because of design (I can’t avoid being caught by blue haired characters, be it male of female), she was one of the reason I decided to continue my journey on Love Live despite knowing how idol hell can ruin me after Nijigasaki murdered my wallet (party because I saw that artwork of her using a bow).

While later on Maki became my favourite of μ’s, I always respected Umi, she is the strict guide a group needs to keep their feet on the ground which she does well for someone like Honoka, although I do agree with you that her methods are quite harsh, but it is proven that she really cares for Honoka, even if it’s shown on severe scolding on S2 (in this case Honoka was at fault for not taking her weight loss issue seriously) or extreme worry when she got lost in the movie). I talked about the S1 drama already on the discussion of Honoka, so I’ll skip that part. I think she was a necessary balance for the second year trio, which is shown on how much they all can help each other mutually on the student council arc in S2, but unfortunately she didn’t get too much de development outside her friend zone. She’s a wonderful trainer, and while her regimen might seem excessive, she probably wanted to keep the group (specially Honoka probably) fit for the idol activities. I just wish she had more development.

She does have moments I like, that’s for sure, like the moment after she was asked to become an idol, she missed all her arrows due to imagining herself being an idol, with her iconic ラブアローシュート, in which her classmate was astonished by her kissing an arrow, or how lethal she can be when disturbed in the middle of her sleep, that pillow fight was just legendary, she really as a sharp eye and aim, as later shown in the Wonder Zone episode with her accuracy with darts.

She seems to be the most rational of the group, but she also has moments were she lets her excitement or ideals drag her feet of the ground (like how she was so focused on climbing the mountain in S2 that Nozomi had to pull her back to the ground by telling her to know when to give up), and despite that, she’s often assigned to write lyrics that are related to a topic she always felt awkward with, yet I am glad she was and how she fulfilled that.

But honestly what probably caught me the most from her might probably be how relatable her situation in the past might have been for me, as I also was really shy during my childhood and barely talked, and it was always my friends who would drag me with them to experience new things, as I always felt awkward doing stuff I am not used to, which that part I still do. And her awkward/scaredy moments when she gets frightened by movie occurrences, that hit me hard, as it reminded me how I also exaggerated some reactions for things that are technically fiction.

Overall I like Umi more for what her role is, the one who will always stand beside her friends and help, and how relatable she felt to me.

Coincidentally this morning I forgot that today was her weekly discussion, and Spotify recommended me first thing in the morning a song of Umi for my daily list, so now I have 私たちは未来の花 as my favourite song of her song, which previously was 勇気のReason.

D: 
In the character swap scene Umi has kind of a "Rin demeanor" indeed. So deep inside she's actually a rather playful character, but her elitist traditionalist parents don't like that?

Is this why she needs Honk the magnetic hero × manic pixie dream girl = genki kagayaki leader who's dragging her into undiscovered countries, quote Umi herself?

Honk who awakens Umi's playful "Love Arrow Shoot" kind of demeanor...? (Most symbolic: Umi's Kyudo scene. A reference to and virtually copypaste from "Arjuna" where death and rebirth is the starting point. This would shed a whole different light on Honk's importance for Umi...)

And she loves Kosakas's pastries. So Umi too would love to live a "gourmet girl" life; but it's again her household preventing this?

Sheds a new light on the weightloss ep: Umi also jelly and venting her anger - like Eli in her first workout unit with the girls?

So is this connection the true reason Umi wants Eli as their trainer...?

And Umi's meanwhile sometimes overprotective: Birb can't rly talk about her letter and departure; Umi ends up doing the talk...

Mari too needs to inform the others of the delayed open house day. Kanan does not do the talk for her...

Actually these are two opposite arcs: Birb would soon become more self-confident. In "Song for You" she and not Umi would wake up Honk (by yelling across the street...)

Mari meanwhile cannot possibly persevere and let alone prevail on her own. She needs Kanan and the others. And Kanan would fully accept her fate and destiny only before the campfire...

Maki's in a similar situation. Im SID her dad wanna forbid her any further idol activities due to her declining grades. Umi again intervening and doing the talk.

So despite all abrasiveness Umi does have some "Onee-chan" qualities. She's only in her 2nd year in the anime - would she evolve into Dia's direction in her 3rd year....?

And so this is how LL rhymes once again.

(personality-database.com opinion)

A: Umi is shy but can certainly lead when the need arises. She always thinks logically and is very by the book. When something unexpected occurs, she behaves anxiously and tends to be quite a worrywart, catastrophizing and imagining the worst-case scenarios. I don't see Ni and inferior Se in her but I do see Si and inferior Ne

B: Very disciplined, capable of forcing others to train too hard. She is the main organizer within the group, being strong willed and with leadership skills.
I could be describing Se-creative perfectly, but no, this is how the wikia describes her (And I think anyone who has seen this will agree with it). No clue where are all those LII votes coming from, but she is a very obvious LSI.

C: Definitely calm and not limbic. Wishes the best for her friends and is very rulers-oriented and structured, a bit strict but very kind and supportive, definitely lawful good.