
name        : Chika Takami
kanji       : 高海 千歌
color       : #ff9547
mbti        : ENFJ(185), ENFP(60)

(idol.st)
background:
Chika is the second-year student at Uranohoshi Girls' High School who launched Aqours. She is the youngest of three sisters and comes from a family with a ryokan known for its open-air, ocean-view hot springs. She is neighbors with former Otonokizaka first year student Riko Sakurauchi and is childhood friends with Kanan Matsuura and You Watanabe.

Chika's elder sisters are Shima and Mito. According to magazine material, her sisters are also fans of μ's, though this does not seem to have been retained in the anime adaptation. They also own a large dog named Shiitake.

In the first episode, on a trip to Tokyo with You, the two learned about school idols and the Love Live! tournament after seeing a screen with school idols at the Akiba Dome, including µ's. She becomes fascinated with the idea of school idols, so she decides to start, with You, a school idol club of their own at their high school.

personality:
Chika is very energetic, goofy, sociable and has a very strong sense of perseverance. The latter point is especially notable, as it is shown multiple times in the anime, such as when she kept on trying to persuade the school council president, Dia Kurosawa, to let the School Idol Club be approved. Her positive, can-do attitude gradually begins to affect everyone around her as well as the anime progresses. Her energetic and perseverant nature also makes her rather impatient and easy to tease about giving up, only to make her even more perseverant on achieving her goal.

Due to her usual positive nature, however, she tends to hide her more sensitive side, and tries hard not to cry when she is sad or frustrated, as she feels it would drag down others' morale if they were to see her feeling sad. This can be seen during Season 1 Episode 8, when she is deeply frustrated on the inside after Aqours' disappointing performance compared to the other school idol groups.

Chika heavily dislikes when her friends get into confrontations she deems petty, being one of the very few things that can anger her. This can be seen in Season 1 Episode 9, where she mediates a dispute between Kanan and Mari after a nervous Dia is unable to calm things down. She loves and treasures the friendships she's made throughout her years at school, especially with You, who has been her childhood friend. Since Riko moved to Uchiura, however, Chika becomes very interested in befriending her new fellow second year. Season 1 Episode 11 eventually culminates with this on her and Riko comforting a jealous You about this. On the other hand, she's not above making snide, deadpan expressions whenever one of her friends is acting strange, such as with Yoshiko.

In one of the audio dramas, it is revealed Chika not only has a habit making puns, but of explaining them without being asked as well.

(namu.wiki)

introduction:
Nice to meet you! I am Takami Chika, a second-year high school student attending Uranohoshi Girls' Academy in Uchiura, located in a corner of Suruga Bay , Shizuoka Prefecture ! At first, I had given up on becoming an idol before I even tried, thinking it was a distant world that was impossible for kids like us living in the countryside. But still—the school idols I admire, μ's, taught me that if you don't give up, your dreams will come true. People laugh, but I am truly serious. I want to get even just a little bit closer to μ's, the group I love so much that shines so brightly. Of course, I know it is a completely reckless challenge, but still—I have nothing to lose☆ Honoka-chan said that nothing starts unless you try —so we have made up our minds and are now taking our first step!

(wikipedia)

Chika is a second-year student at Uranohoshi Girls' Academy. She always claimed to be too ordinary, but became inspired after finding out that the members of μ's managed to "shine" brightly despite also being normal students. This leads her to form a school idol group, with her determination compounded by the fact that her school is facing the potential crisis of consolidating with another school (with Uranohoshi's students moving to another campus), similarly to how μ's formed after their school was at risk of shutting down. The youngest among three daughters, her family runs a traditional inn known for its open-air hot springs with an ocean view. Sometimes Chika loves to insert terrible puns between her words, even explaining them. She acts as Aqours' leader and primary lyricist.

(reddit opinion)

A:Oh, Chika... Where do I even begin? There's just something so relatable about her journey, that I couldn't find anywhere else to this extent. Despite our personalities being quite different on a surface level, I still found her to be shockingly relatable.

Growing up, she always saw herself as this normal girl. "Normal Monster Chika". She didn't have this one thing, that she was 100% dedicated to, unlike her best friend You for example. She didn't have a passion in her life, she lacked a dream.

However, that changed when she discovered school idols. Seeing this seemingly normal girls out there succeed... achieve something... shine! It was inspirational to her. The mere idea, that a normal high school girl like herself could be able to shine so brightly on stage and give hope to thousands, if not millions out there... To say it was life-changing for her would be an understatement. It was the wake up call she needed all along! Seeing μ's was the thing that inspired her to go out there and find her own shine. It was the motivation she needed.

So for the first time in her life, she went out there and took action, creating her own school idol club despite the difficulties that came along the way. But this time Chika was determined to find her shine at all cost. She found out that things were harder than expected, that the competition was huge and that the world was sometimes unfair. But still... She kept going. She wouldn't stop until she turned zero to one and one to one hundred! For the first time in her life, she found something that she cared deeply about.

At first she tried too hard to be like her source of inspiration. She tried to copy μ's shine. She tried to save her school, just like they did. But we all know how that turned out... She couldn't be like μ's... She found out the hard way, but it was an important realization for her. Because in the end, trying to be like someone else will never end well. Chika realized that she couldn't just try to copy someone else's shine. She had to find her own!

From a narrative standpoint, I'm glad they couldn't save their school. Because that way the anime was able to convey a much deeper and meaningful message. Yeah, sometimes things don't go the way we want them to. It sucks. It hurts. It's unfair. But that doesn't mean you can't achieve something meaningful. That doesn't mean you can't find your own passion or follow your dream. Sometimes things don't go as expected, but we still have our own individual shine deep inside. No matter what happens. And no one can take that away from us.

What even is a shine? It's a bit hard to explain, but I guess it's just something that gives your life meaning and motivates you to keep doing the things you love. I can't come up with a better definition right now, but you probably get what I'm talking about either way if you watched Sunshine.

If it wasn't already obvious from me writing a whole ass essay about her... I love Chika. Truly and from the bottom of my heart. Not only do I find her struggles extremely relatable, but seeing the way she handles them and keeps going, despite it being so goddamn hard sometimes, inspires me so much. And for that, I will always love and cherish her. 🧡

(And yes, I prepared this essay before the weekly post got uploaded. I already knew that I had a lot to say, so I was prepared lol.)

B: In my mind there is zero doubt that Chika is the best leader for Aqours. Perhaps the best "leader" of any group in Love Live, really. Not because she's literally the best, either; far from it. Chika starts leading Aqours with naiveity and hubris that, frankly, never fully goes away. She's unbelievably stubborn and quick to anger, not all that great at reading people, and ultimately-- crucially-- starts with no special skills. She's as she describes herself to Riko, a normal monster.

But what sets Chika apart from any other leader I've seen is her ability to adapt, and her resolve to keep going. She fought uphill from nothing, from a literal 0 at their first concert, to get to where she is. She was met with problem after problem, with absolutely nothing handed on a silver platter, and even lost her school in the process, but-- she never stopped.

I picked this week's image from the S2 montage of Chika training for the Miracle Wave, because I think it best exemplifies this. No matter how bruised and battered Chika gets, she keeps going. She'll stop, she'll heal, she'll cry if she needs to (all lessons she had to learn in themselves), but she'll keep going. I love the other Love Live leaders, but I maintain none of them would have been able to lead Aqours. Very few people can fail and fall as many times as Chika did.

That aside, she's a great character on her own. Her design is great, she's full of personality and so easy to like, that it doesn't even surprise me her two best friends are a world-class diver and pianist. Her singing voice is perfect: basic, almost normal-sounding, but overflowing with power and emotion. Her solos are great too; big band is so perfectly Chika that I didn't even know it was her seiyuu's request.

To end: In SIP, μ's often encountered a fluttering white feather, a little whim of chance floating on the wind. Chika, while she did encounter this feather, also has her own symbol: a paper airplane she throws over and over, no matter how many times it falls back down.

C: 
I honestly think Chika is the best written character in all of Love Live. She starts out goofy, but deeply insecure, only to grow in confidence both as a leader and as a person. She’s flawed, and makes mistakes. But she’s also very emotionally intelligent and learns from every failure - and she has many of them. Sunshine is Chika’s story, and it’s because of her that Sunshine is as strong as it is. 

Watching her grow over the course of the series was a real pleasure. The Chika who stands at the end is fundamentally changed - something that very few characters in this franchise can say. We got to watch her mature. She still gets to keep her goofball side, but there’s a more even tempered confidence in her now. She’s able to keep going forward in the face of failure, not because she has to, but because she wants to and knows what success means to her. I feel like I got to watch her become an adult. If it weren’t for Chika I don’t think I would have ever given Aqours much of a chance, and I’m glad I stuck around to see her journey complete itself.

D: Aqours at first didn’t catch my attention, the first time I watched Sunshine I didn’t feel too attached to them, and until I finished S2 and rewatched S1, I came to appreciate them much more.

Chika is the hardest working of the leaders, she started from scratch, from her “Normal Monster” phase, she had zero interest in, no club that she really wanted to join despite You constantly asking her, which she did feel bad for, until she discovered μ’s and therefore school idols in the same spot Honoka discovered the same concept with A-RISE. Of course the beginning was rough, of course, with Dia opposing them and not having an impact on Numazu, her first performance was “miraculously” saved, and the 0 they got from the competition in Tokyo really hurt them, from being disrespected by Saint Snow to being respected, but she never gave up, and their motto “From Zero to One”, and later on “From One to something even greater” was really inspiring and what really changed my perspective on them, they definitely worked hard for their goals, now matter how hard the path they threaded, and while it was bittersweet that they won Love Live with the downside of losing their school, felt more realistic as not everything end up in the way we want to, unfortunately.

She’s really energetic at times, can get too hyped up, is stubborn and her temper makes her easy to get frustrated, sometimes it felt like she was really hard to keep up with, and starting to lead a group from naivety to follow the group that inspired them to shine how they did made me doubt at the beginning, but as time passed I realised there was no better candidate to lead a group such as Aqours, as her stubbornness and her capability to adapt really helped her overcome many situations, like how she thought about a method of participating in both the preliminaries and in their school event with the mikan trolley, and while she’s not as good to read other people, she truly cares for her friends, like how she helped Riko overcome her own doubts with her piano capabilities.

Her hard working personality is something I feel related too, one of my mottos that I apply at work is “If you lack the talent for it, work harder to compensate it, being a hard-worker is a talent on its own” which often saved me from my self doubts when I get in new environments, in which seeing her dedicate herself to be an idol from her being “normal” for reasons as saving their school and winning Love Live really resonated in me and made me appreciate her more, specially with the training she had to do for MIRACLE WAVE, she was clearly frustrated but even despite of that she never gave up until she managed it, that just proved the lengths she would go to fulfil her goals.

Another part of the plot I liked was how she began following the shine μ’s had to realise she cannot be like them and shine bright on their own, having a role model to be inspired is really important, but ultimately everyone has their own journey and their own destination.

She’s overall a great character, my second favourite “leader” type of character, her personality is just so positive and likeable. Her sibling relationship is also the most relatable out of all of them, while there were little iterations I thought that they were quite fun. Are we counting the Yohane counterparts? She’s even as hardworking as her normal self, be it in the inn or as her other job.

Unfortunately I don’t have a favourite solo song of her, and CYaRon! isn’t my style of music either.

Didn’t expect to take this long, but I guess I had ti start Aqours properly.

E: “Kimi no Kokoro wa, Kagayaiteiru Kai?”

The Normal Monster. The leader of Aqours. The Mikan girl. Takami Chika.

As much as I could write about this girl, like Honoka, I’ll try to keep it short.

Picking up the mantle after Mu’s is no small task. Aqours and LL Sunshine as a whole had one of the hardest jobs from its very creation. But both narratively, and through Chika herself, they were able to not only carry on, but become something truly unique and wonderful.

The story of Sunshine is some of the best written works I have ever had the pleasure of going through, and Chika’s journey is always one of the highlights. Learning how to be a leader, to overcome hardships, to make new friends, to fight for your school, and ultimately how to fail and keep going. The story is as timeless as it is endearing.

I’ll probably talk about Chika’s relationships with all of the other girls in their respective discussions, so I’ll leave this out for now. She has complex and well developed moments with all of the other girls, and you can really see how they grow close to each other over the course of the show.

It’s a bit fun to see her change a bit in GNY, being a bit more reserved (until she changes into her Million Dollar costume).

One of the hardest parts about Aqours ending is that in some fashion, I’ll have to say goodbye to all of these characters, Chika included. And while I’m grateful that it happened, I really get the feeling of wishing that things could always keep going, that time didn’t have to pass.

Regardless, thank you Chika. Anchan is one of the most amazing Seiyuu’s I’ve had the pleasure of listening to.

TLDR: Infinity/10 for the mikan girl. I love her so much. Anchan is so amazing. YouChika legendary Z-Tier ship. Please check out Kanbayashi Makoto’s work. ChikaRiko SS-Tier ship, almost entirely carried by Kougi Hiroshi.

Water Blue New World is my favorite song of all time. I do have OYHNN and a few other Aqours and Mu’s songs in a reserved playlist called “Songs I only listen to on special occasions to make sure I don’t overlisten to them”.

F: 
Sunshine was my first introduction into love live in general. So chika was an interesting character for me to dissect.

(This is merely my opinion and it has been an year since I watch the show so forgive my takes)

Chika for me is a lavish but flawed character. Her attitude and positive personality creates an outgoing and persistent presence within the group. She is trying to be the honaka of the group. I have not watched the original show but I have seen clips.

Chika at first had a vanity project. Aqours was a vanity for chika; she express her admiration for the previous group that she wanted to create a group to model off from. What chika really wanted was something to show off from and making people joined was her big chance to replicate muse. That is why her personality was more outlandish and more pushy than before.

After Saint snow and having to deal with the high expectations of people looking at their group, I think chika had to change her approach and how she saw the situation as a whole. Having the third years reconcile made her realize that there are real things that she needs to deal with. Making her confront her shortcomings and knowing her school is at stake made her take a chance that she can have an opportunity to make things more better. Given the fact she lost the previous competition, she realize that it was her duty to take her role more seriously than before.

Before: she was playing around, drawing faces in her notebook, having thoughts preoccupied by muse and their struggles, making a trip down to their own school just to see how they made it work, having a breakdown, and having the stage lights shut on her, getting no support or votes.

After: She becomes more focus on her team. Builds strong relationships with her teammates, taking chances, supporting and empowering others, giving insight into her growth, and accepting responsibility of her actions.

Chika is a character that develops and learns. We don’t need an another honaka, what we need is a character that looks for inspiration and innovates their team to build a new horizon along the sun. That is the term and name we give: Sunshine.

(personality-database.com opinion)

A - ENFJ: wasn't planning to make a comment in here at all, just wanted to vote and maybe check what most people voted for her, but... it got me SO surprised to see that from the 30 votes no one had seem her as a Fe user, and this almost makes me sad, so here is why i think Chika is an ENFJ!
Chika always looked at herself and saw someone average and normal, someone who lacked the skills to be bright, so her main focus was to help the other girls shine, girls who looked extremely interesting in her eyes. they all had their unique traits, something that seemed out of her league... even as their leader.
she always thought about the others first, how they were capable and skilled and could do anything. she helped Ruby and Hanamaru break out of their shells, helped Yoshiko to learn to accept herself, made Riko believe in her skills again and so on. she was the glue that kept Aqours together and everything she did was for their sake; not taking *her* own feelings/values, that would be considered as Fi, in consideration as much. she also had a hard time expressing her feelings if that meant she would have to show weakness for those she was trying to push forwards for all that time.  she was always pursuing her main goal of being like Honoka because that's what she lacked for herself; a personal sense of identity. something that could make her shine too. she couldn't see it on her, but she could see the potential in each one of the others and pushed them as far as she could for their success as idols.
Aqours finally succeeded as a group when Chika learned to take care of herself, too. when she learned that her feelings of not being as important as the other girls weren't true since she is what has brought everyone together.
lastly, i can see why peple would think she is a high Fi user since she tries so hard to be like Honoka who is an ENFP, but it is important to notice that a Fi user would want to have their *own* identity created from their own values. Chika wasn't like that, she just liked Honoka so much that she did everything she could to look as bright as her.
thank you for reading!! ^-^

B - ENFJ: SHES SO ENFJ ITS ALMOST PAINFUL... I was super surprised when she wasn't an ENFP like I suspected, but i was pleasantly surprised!! I thought she was pretty similar to akko (little witch academia) (an ENFP 7w8) at first. demeanor‐wise they are, but their differences became really clear to me as i watched the aqours anime!! similarly to chika, akko wanted her friends to join her in her dream, though they were pretty reluctant. but despite that she pushed them to come along with them because this is what she thought was best for them! in contrast, when chika tries to get riko to join aqours, she doesn't force her to after hearing her reasoning (despite kind of badgering her about it a lot beforehand...) it seemed more like she was asking her! when riko said that she wouldn't have time for being an idol, chika was okay for the idea of her just being their songwriter, she was more passive than akko's straightforwardness.

OH ALSO ANOTHER THING I SHOULD ADD akko was usually very uninhibited when it came to expressing emotions, often crying out of excitement and expressing anger and discomfort openly (Fi) while chika often hid her negative feelings from aqours, despite them being so close! i thought that was very interesting.

Also unrelated I defnitely do not think she uses Ne. her ni was very Very apparent to me especially after they got 0 votes at their first love live, at the moment she ran straight into the ocean and riko was like "?!?!?!!!! Wtf" i don't remember exactly what she said after riko asked her why she did that, but she said something along the lines of "i don't know. I just thought i would feel something / get a new idea" she was searching for a new insight or idea i think...? (I don't understand Ni as much despite being an ENFJ so please bear with me 🙇‍♂️) it's also apparent when she's coming up with song lyrics, she often has to wait until she gets the right idea before she starts writing!

Tldr she is 100% an ENFJ! I don't see any Si or Fi in her at all. Let me know if I got anything wrong, I'm here to learn..!

C - ENFJ: I don’t get the ENFP voters. True, she can be an energetic airhead like an ENFP, but if you have learnt/are learning the cognitive functions, you’ll know ENFP doesn’t fit her.

Firstly, lack of Fi. As a Fi user myself, Fi is clearly about personal values and YOUR feelings. Fe, on the other hand, is more of the GROUP’S feelings and values, which is what Chika shows more. She suppressed her feelings quite a number of times, notably after the school’s merger and getting 0 at the live show. In Season 1 Episode 9, she deliberately broke up the third years’ fight by shouting at them. It has been stated on the Love Live fandom she doesn’t like seeing people argue, so I don’t get why that’s Fi.

Secondly, lack of Ne. Ne is about being imaginative and looking at the futures of OTHERS, but Ni is making connections and looking at YOUR OWN FUTURE. (If im not wrong) She was pretty affected after the merger announcement and the live show with 0 votes because of that. Also, it’s the way she writes song which makes me feel she isn’t ENFP. If she’s ENFP, she’ll have a greater imagination and use that’ to write lyrics. However, she often has to wait or find inspiration to write lyrics.

All in all, she’s an ENFJ, not ENFP. Inf si doesn’t make sense. Also, if you have any more examples on where she uses Ni, please comment below. I’m still learning.