
name        : Dia Kurosawa
kanji       :  黒澤 ダイヤ
color       : #db0839
mbti        : ESTJ(179), ISTJ(10)

(idol.st)
background:
Dia is a third-year student who is the president of the student council, and is the older sister of Ruby Kurosawa, who she shares a strong bond with. She is from an old family involved in fishing management whose name is well-known around the area. The Kurosawa family also owns a number of companies including real estate, entertainment, human resources and restaurant management. Dia is childhood friends with Kanan Matsuura and Mari Ohara.

In the anime, Dia initially rejects the idea of an idol club because of Chika Takami's incompetence and inexperience, chastising her for her lack of idol knowledge. It is later revealed in Season 1 Episode 4 that she used to be a fan of school idols, sharing this hobby with her sister Ruby, although something caused her to lose that interest. This is explained in Season 1 Episodes 6, 8 and 9, as she was part of a school idol group formed by Kanan, alongside her and Mari. However, Mari had suffered an injury right before their performance, so Kanan and Dia decided to step down and not perform. This failure caused Dia to hide her interest in school idols and initially try and prevent Chika's idol club from happening, but she later joins Chika's group in Episode 9 after Mari and Kanan reconcile.

personality:
Dia is a very refined, polite and mature young woman who speaks in a formal style of Japanese, regarding all of her friends with politeness by referring to each of them as "-san", and usually ending her phrases with "-desu wa." Strict, hardworking, and a bit of a perfectionist, she dislikes it when things are done sloppily or incorrectly, which is part of the reason why she initially rejected Chika's application for a school idol club. She is very meticulous regarding small details, as far as going on tirades regarding the unorthodox reading of certain Kanji.

Though always trying to remain dignified and serious, Dia has a short temper, and she can be quite brash and melodramatic, while she also has a smiley heart and is very kind to her group. Whenever she denies something, she uses her catchphrase "Buu buu desu wa!" (ブッブーですわ！ "Bzzt bzzt, it is not!"), as if imitating a buzzer. She also tends to become overly zealous when school idols are involved, as she is very passionate about the subject, which becomes apparent in Season 1 Episode 2.

Because Dia can be quite harsh, she initially had the most difficulty in getting along with the rest of Aqours with the exception of her fellow third years, despite being adaptable like Ruby (as seen in Season 2 Episode 2); this is especially notable when referring to the second years. Although she is formal and polite, she also wishes the rest of the group referred to her as a friend by using more informal pronouns much like the other third years, despite referring to them with politeness. After Season 2 Episode 4, she becomes more patient towards them, and the group refers to her informally more often, displaying more closeness to them.

Dia can be described as a tsundere. While she is strict with a tough exterior, Dia is genuinely kind deep down and cares for all of her friends, particularly her younger sister Ruby, whom she is very protective and nurturing of. She wants nothing less than total success for Aqours, and constantly pushes herself and her friends to be the best they can possibly be in order to achieve their goals. After the events of Season 1 Episodes 7 and 8, she expresses the group her support for them, revealing part of the reason why she initially rejected the application for their school idol group is that she was afraid they would be demoralized in the same fashion she was in the past, demonstrating a soft side to her. Season 1 Episode 9 also reveals that, due to her close friendship with her fellow third years, she can have difficulty at settling down a harsh discussion, as she becomes insecure at which side to pick.

According to Mari and Kanan, Dia has a habit of scratching her beauty mark whenever she is telling a lie. Flashbacks of her younger self on certain episodes also reveal she used to be much like her sister Ruby, fairly timid, fearful and easily moved to tears, though she did start to develop her more serious side as time passed.

(namu.wiki)

introduction:

Now that I’ve joined—I won’t forgive you unless you win at all costs!?

Normally, it would have been unthinkable for someone like me to get entangled in such a shameless activity as a school idol—but since I lost the match, there is no other way. I still have my young younger sister held hostage—so I will participate in activities for Love Live! However, now that I am participating—I absolutely cannot allow anything other than winning, okay? Because two defeats do not suit a daughter of the Kurosawa family. Shall I make you regret dragging me into being a member? Get ready, Chika ? Hehe .

(wikipedia)
Dia is the prideful third-year student council president at Uranohoshi Girls' Academy. She and her younger sister Ruby are part of a well-known and respected family. Dia is also a diehard fan of μ's, but hid her enthusiasm about school idols after she, Kanan, and Mari separated, until she was convinced to join Aqours by Chika and the others. She is the origin of Aqours' name, passing it on to Chika's group from when she, Kanan, and Mari were school idols. She scolds and corrects the other members with her catchphrase "Bubbū desu wa!" (ブッブーですわ!), the Japanese onomatopoeia for an incorrect buzzer.

(reddit opinion)

A: I really like her, my Aqours fave just behind her sister. I think her design is the prettiest and most appealing out of any LL character; the mole, the green eyes, her hime cut being more brown than black, and the white clips are all very nice aspects of her design. It all creates a really nice contrast with her red theme color.

Character-wise she’s great; her relationship with Ruby is everything and I could really feel her passion and love for idols and Aqours as a whole as she was portrayed in the series. There’s something about her voice that I love a lot too; Arisha’s tone is very unique and it complements the genre of her solo songs well also

B: Dia is neat. Somehow along the way she crept up my list and became my third favorite girl. I just like her? You can feel how much she carries the weight of responsibility, but not very far below the surface she’s extraordinarily awkward. Suwawa puts it best, she’s objectively speaking kind of a loser. It’s a fun gap. Her episode in season 2 is honestly one of my favorite in the series, I don’t really know why. I just think she’s fun! She has good relationships with just about every character in the group. Ruby of course, but I also really enjoy her relationship with Mari. There’s teasing that never crosses the line, they’re serious when they need to be, and she willingly gets goofy sometimes with no shame, feels like a real friendship. Maybe that’s why I like her - she feels like a really normal high school girl trying to keep it together.

Her design is cute, and I think the lisp is nice little detail that really adds a lot. She was definitely weaker earlier on, but Arisha has really grown as a singer and I’ve found that Dia’s parts have started to stand out a lot to me.

Also I think it’s hilarious her bff is Hatsune Miku. You go girl.

C: I have to admit, I didn't like Dia for a while. The way she imposed her own bad experience on Ruby and discouraged her from being an idol felt unfair, and I wasn't crazy for how strict and callous she was. Her presence in the Kanan-Dia-Mari trio also felt kinda weak, like she was third-wheeling a friendship or something. She was probably my second least favourite in the group, I could just never bring myself to like her.

Later I had a discussion with an ardent Dia #1 fan and I was swayed a bit, though. Dia at the end of the day just wanted to sing with her friends, and yeah, she was suddenly dragged into their unrelated conflict. It's completely fair she'd become cold and bitter after Kanan and Mari's row. And I began to see how much of that cold personality wasn't legit, given her desire for level friendships in Don't call me Dia-san. Dia from this reads like a more bitter Chika, or a Chika who couldn't handle the failure she was given, and that makes me like her a bit more.

Still, her personality isn't crazy for me (and I still think she treated Ruby unfairly), so while I don't rank her high I don't really rank her low either. Her solo songs are amazing though, I love the fusion of club music and traditional instruments. I believe it was her voice actor's input, but it suits Dia's traditional background and idol interest really well.

D: 
Initially I found Dia a bit difficult to understand, she was harsh to Chika and You for attempting to start a dream, and imposed fear on even her sister, because of her past experiences and her obsession with what both Love Live and μ’s meant to her, it was sad seeing how someone who had a past fervour for idols and became one be so opposed to the idea of a next generation taking over, that is, of course, until I understood the actual backstory behind it, but even then, I couldn’t get myself too attached to her.

She’s definitely a good sister though , the dynamic change of Ruby once she joined the group was really cute and I loved how both complemented each other so well, because of course, idols were an important part of their sibling relationship, and even with the other third years, while it feels like she was just there hanging out because, it’s clear that she knows and cares about them. Even with the second years, while she was harsh against them in the beginning, it was shown that she wanted them to succeed, as shown first with her sneakingly writing Aqours on the beach while the trio was finding a name for the group, or how she turned on the power again after the power shut down. Just like her GnY self, she cares about the others, but she just doesn’t want/can’t let it be shown because she always felt the weight of responsibility on her shoulders (her signature is also a proof of that), which her episode gave an interest perspective of, she always wanted to be in the same wavelength as the rest, but her status as the serious president made others hard to approach her.

Her devotion and knowledge to mostly Love Live and to idols is definitely unmatched though, I found it really funny how she made an idol quiz during the open campus only for her to end up winning despite being the judge.

In season 2 her relationship with Kanan and Mari really hit me hard, when they were thinking about their futures and how they all have faced the reality about them going separate paths and how well each of them have already accepted that with a good mood rather than a sad one.

While her character in Sunshine didn’t catchy me too much, I definitely loved the shift they did in GnY, she turned into a badass katana warrior riding a magic/electric (Hextech? My apologies to anyone who gets the reference) powered bike, they definitely cooked with this design.

While she unfortunately is on the lower side of my tiers, she definitely was an enjoyable character, but I guess this opinion will get Buu Buu desu wa’d by her and I will end in the Shadow Realm.

I don’t really have a favourite song of her, so I’ll just say We’ll get the next dream!!! is my favourite song of AZALEA.

E:
BUU BUU Desu Wa! Dia time.

Kurosawa Dia is a very endearing character, well on e you get to know her. In her first few episodes she comes across as very combative, even more so than Eli in SIP. It makes sense in retrospect, but I can see why people might not enjoy her based on her early characterization. However, there is a wonderful girl beyond that which the rest of the show very much emphasizes.

Dia, like the other two third years, gets a lot of her characterization done right for the audience to see. We learn her journey and what got her to be this way, and it makes it all the more compelling when she joins Aqours. Her relationship with Chika, Ruby, Kanan and Mari is one of the centerpieces of season 1, but beyond that she takes a bit more of a laid-back role in the story. Interestingly, she doesn’t seem to be as emotionally distraught by Uranohoshi closing as say, Mari or Chika, but I’d like to think that’s just because she doesn’t let it show very much.

As the student council president, Dia probably takes on a lot more responsibility than most people realize, but she almost never complains, and once she becomes an idol, never lets it interfere either. It has to be very tiring dealing with Mari’s constant shenanigans, but she manages to make it work.

I find myself drawn to Dia’s passion more than anything. She’s a huge Mu’s fan, and really a school idol fan in general, and she even makes an incorrect buzzer noise at people when she thinks they’re wrong. To me it’s indicative of how much passion she has for the things she enjoys.

Dia’s relationships with the rest of the cast are a focal point of a lot of her screentime. While we did get some good sibling moments in SIP, Sunshine has siblings both be in the same idol group, and it’s always nice to see Dia doting on Ruby. While she does start out the show as being very protective (probably because of her own experiences), she gradually learns to let Ruby do her own thing, just like she learns to move on from Aqours (at least for a time in my onion).

Dia warming up to Chika is always great to watch, since it really reflects her opening herself up again as a person. But really, her relationship with Mari and Kanan is the most important. Their dynamic is already touched on in the show, so won’t go into it too much. Dia is often the voice of reason between the three of them, but it’s nice when she gets fired up and the positions reverse. As for the other first and second years, we very much get to see how they feel towards Dia in season 2. It’s very fun.

Two last small things: for those of you that don’t know much Japanese, Dia often says “desu wa” instead of “desu” which is a very feminine way of speech. She also often speaks more formally (this is a whole thing in Japanese), and addresses other people with the “San” honorific, which makes her appear like a very formal, well-behaved girl. This leads into perhaps the worst episode to have to localize to English, where Dia feels a bit displeased at her more formal relationship with everyone else (how they all call her “Dia-san” back, for example). English… doesn’t really have the same level of overt formality, which makes it incredibly hard to get the same message across.

Leah and Sara comment on Dia’s “Stage presence” when they describe what Aqours is missing when the third years leave. For those of you that aren’t really theater kids, it is not easy to appear “larger than life” on stage. Having a better command over your body, posture, face, and motions can make a world of difference in how you’re perceived by the audience. dia’s strongest element is her presence on the stage during a performance, something that naturally draws your eye to it. I think it fits great with her character, even if it’s not something that’s often recognized.

In GnY, Dia goes from being the student council president to being the teen mayor of the entire town of Numazu. Not only is she really good at it, but she still keeps her more fun side around to show with her friends (or to be a Power Ranger, which is funny because she actually was one at one point, or at least the Japanese equivalent).

TLDR: 93/10 for the Desuwa. Apparently during the audition process, they saw Arisha and just thought, “Yeah that’s Dia.” You can really tell. I also love her banter with Rikako. DiaKananMari legendary Z-tier ship.

Dia-Chan!

F: From a timid early beta version of Ruby to Sunrise's female Lelouch 2.0...

And all thanks to the early Aq's founded by 1st year Kanan.

Dia the shy little girl learned a bit more extraversion and began to sing and to do roleplay games with Ruby, who would tell Maru about this...

Mari too profited and found a straw to grasp at for an attempt at escaping an arranged marriage. Unfortunately DiaKanan couldn't help her in their 1st year. To me it seems Mari's parents put them under pressure too, so Kanan threw up and felt bad at the Tokyo Event. The true reason for them canceling their performance there.

This made Kanan start to escape further and further into a dismissive cocoon.

But Dia meanwhile started to grow and mature over the rainbow. Somehow she managed to become Ura's school council president.

And she left a wooden card at Tokyo's Shinto shrine that already Muse had visited: Dia virtually begging the Kamis to help Mari. The grown Aq's (grown both in numbers and in matureness) would later find the wooden card again before WBNW...

But how should and would Aq's start growing? The two key pawns on the chessboard: Chika the magnetic hero and Riko the "engineer". They arrived, and Dia could take action... Mari's return also was announced (and Dia as school council president would receive the letter on her table), so she had to take action too...

First move: Tricking the new idol club into adopting the name Aq's. What were MariKanan thinking when they saw their new old bandname...?

Second move: Preparing the electric generators. Ocean and forest clash in the Numazu area, so the weather's often not so friendly.... and then the lightning did strike. Mari thought it's all over and began crying. So did Chika. But then the electricity returns.... Kanan's been waiting outside. Now she's leaving. Is she beginning to smell a rat...?

Inbetween there was "zero points" and here it was Riko who saw Chika in time (from her parents' neighbor house). On the one hand Dia was lucky here, on the other hand she had secretly recruited ChikaRiko which now paid off...

Third (direct) move: Making Kanan join the new Aq's.... and now we've arrived at "Young Dreamer". Mari showing Kanan the Tokyo Event costume - Kanan throwing it out of the window, the 2nd years seeing the costume. So they luckily got wind of MariKanan's fight...

...that made Dia fall back into her old Ruby self. So it wasn't the first fight between MariKanan. But fortunately Chika, who's also a lancer and capable of kicking in doors, stopped their fight.

So again, on the one hand Dia was lucky here. On the other hand: Secretly recruiting Chika earlier now paid off. Again.

And now Dia had the opportunity to pull off her fourth move:

Had she told Mari that Kanan threw up and felt bad, Mari would have begged Kanan for foregiveness. But this would've made Kanan react only with yet another "Piss off!!"

So Dia pulled her riskiest stunt yet: Pretending that Kanan virtually had sided with Mari's parents...

So now a clash was unavoidable. Only if MariKanan reconciled like always in the past, Dia would be able to continue...

And it happened: Kanan now an Aq's member (again), and ChikaRuby tricking Dia into joining too... so they thought...

Because after Mijuku Dreamer it's revealed for how long Dia had already been pulling the strings...

Several "plot twist punches" and Mijuku Dreamer finally as breather and recovery - and then in the epilog the biggest plot twist and reveal pulled outa the hat - a script on a whole new level.

The "First Contact" moment of LL's "Next Gen" imo (and the opinion of many afaih).

And yet the plot twists would grow bigger and bigger...

Because Dia was unable to prevent the open house day delay and "98". Whereas she was able to get Mari's dad to organize a bit more time before "98".

But then it looked to me like the Oharas pulled the plug right before "100" would be, maybe, reached... (Rainbow's director indirectly confirmed it: The two girls in Rainbow's epilog where the ones who "might have" been the last two applicants...)

....or was it a secret arrangement and Dia sacrificed Ura on behalf of preventing the arranged marriage...?

Because all of the sudden Ohara Inc. provided a nocturnal shuttle service after Shiitake had wrecked the Ura farewell festival preps (because no one at Takamis' would take care of the dog that day and so Chika took her to the preps...)

What made the Oharas change sides...? Because in Rainbow Mrs. Ohara would show up without any police or body guards, and Tsuki would even bow to her. Dia meanwhile would block Chika from talking back...

For the merger process DiaTsuki the two presidents had to get in contact anyway, so it seems Dia took action again:

Talking to the Oharas, talking also to Tsuki. Fifth and sixth move...

And at long last MariKanan understood what they owe Dia, which is why they put their hands on her shoulder after the second paper plane scene...

(...with its "blue bird" that the new anime wanna start with...)

G: 
Dia Kurosawa

This one is kinda eiffy for me because there is something I enjoy about Dia.

Dia is someone who understands the hardships and struggles that made her original group break up and how it trickled down towards personal relationships. It destroyed her passion and lost her friends in the process; how would you feel if something you hold dear was torn apart with the people you wanted to experience with?

Dia was an interesting character to say the least. She seems like a very nice big sister, having the relationship with her little sister also, she tries to outside the team to stay on track even on difficult situations. Dia reads to me like a tsudere. Her initial rejection and going against the trio (chika, you, and Riko) when they first put on the show for the whole school then having the school lights being shut off. This might have been a moment Dia knew too well about having your dreams and passions die in front of you before they even begin.

She decides to turn on lights for this particular moment to help, maybe give a little hope, to try and see if the girls would pull through. Her speech at the end of the performance was something I mulled over for a while.

“You had the support of the previous school idol group’s efforts and now you need to recognize the importance of what it means to become one” I am paraphrasing here.

This gave me a questioning about what she was talking about and I thought it over for a while, but, now learning more of her backstory this makes sense. She was saying that the efforts and struggles of what she went through was tough and having the hardest moments to make something happen to just die was something she never wants anyone else to ever experience.

So to me, Dia is one of those people who tries very hard and it failed. Sometimes things do not always work in our favor but it also shows that inspiring and motivating people with your dreams and passions can make a huge difference.

I also love her mixed of traditional and modern style of her music. It really brings the best of both worlds together.

(personality-database.com opinion)

A: My first time typing someone by functions, so I’ll try my best.

Dom Te: she tends to rely on objective logic and usually doesn’t let personal feelings get in the way. Also uses a lot of logic to make decisions and tells others to do so. (Told second years to think carefully before going for a part time job)
Aux Si: the reason she banned school idols was because of her own experiences when she tried being one. (Si is GENERALLY about using your past experiences for your current behaviour, if I’m not wrong.)
Tert Ne: Was the one behind Aqours the name
Inf fi: Her care for her sister and “Don’t call me Dia-san”, revolving around accepting her identity.

If you have more examples to supplement pls add them below
