
name        : Hanamaru Kunikida
kanji       : 国木田 花丸
color       : #ffd010
mbti        : INFP(172), ISFJ(12)

(idol.st)
background:
Hanamaru, known as "Maru" for short (by herself and her friends), is a first year student and the daughter of a family who has run a nearby temple for generations. She lives with her grandparents, and since she does not have a computer, she often reads a lot. Hanamaru is Ruby Kurosawa's best friend, and both are often seen near the other. She also attended the same kindergarten as Yoshiko Tsushima, also one of her friends.

Hanamaru has a distinctive verbal tic and dialect, tending to end her sentences with "zura" (ずら), as well as using "ora" as a first-person pronoun to refer to herself.

In the anime, in the first episode, Hanamaru and Ruby are quickly approached by Chika Takami, who invites them to be school idols. Confused, Hanamaru quickly dismisses the invitation. It is later revealed in Season 1 Episode 4 that Hanamaru actually was interested in school idols, especially after seeing a picture of Rin Hoshizora from µ's, but couldn't bring herself to being a school idol herself because of her appearance and lack of physical condition. She talks Ruby's sister, Dia Kurosawa, into paying attention to what her sister actually wants, which was being a school idol. After Ruby joins Aqours, she tells Hanamaru about the story of Rin and µ's, and Hanamaru finally decides to join Aqours, supporting Ruby in her endeavor.

personality:
Hanamaru is a hardworking girl who diligently works at her family's temple. She spends a lot of time reading alone and is easily distracted by books. Since she was raised as a temple girl, Hanamaru does not watch television much, nor does she use the internet, making her outdated. Because of this, she is fascinated with modern technology, yelling her catchphrase "Mirai zura!" (未来ずら "It's the future, zura!") when she sees something advanced such as a computer. She was often teased due to this, but was usually defended by her best friend Ruby; however, the first time it happened, Ruby ended up crying, causing Hanamaru to comfort her instead.

Hanamaru seems to be quite self-depreciating, calling herself a "chibi procrastinator" and "neither cute nor interesting". She aspires to be like Ruby, whom she sees as "beautiful, cute and dazzling". She is also gentle and caring for those around her. Despite her appearance, Hanamaru is also smart and not easily fooled.

Due to the fact the Second Years are considered "the heart" of Aqours, Hanamaru has some difficulty relating to the Third Years, which is shared with Yoshiko; this is due to her preference for the indoors and for calmer activities. Season 2 Episode 2 explores this, and after a rainy evening forces the girls to stay indoors, the First and Third Years are able to relate to the others, with Hanamaru seemingly relating to Kanan Matsuura the most.

Hanamaru is shown to have a playful and mischievous side; this is especially present when she teases Yoshiko's Fallen Angel behavior and her embarrassing moments (often alongside Ruby), which annoys Yoshiko all the time. She has a surprisingly large appetite, able to eat a food helping quickly and often asking for another one immediately after, and is usually seen eating sweets in the background, the most common of them being a roll of noppo bread.

In Season 1 Episode 4, Hanamaru stated that since she was little, she was a quiet girl who played off to the side.

(namu.wiki)

introduction:
To think I’d actually become a school idol—human destiny is truly不思議 (mysterious/strange)~♡

I never even imagined that I would become a school idol myself—but even so, I can’t just abandon my friend Ruby-chan , right?— I’ll just accept this as human destiny and do my best! Surely, if I accumulate good karma like this in this life, maybe even if I’m reborn, I’ll be able to have fun with Ruby-chan again—Is it because I listened to the old man at the temple say too much that I think like this? Ehehe♡ I was born a temple daughter, but whenever I read a novel I really love, I always find myself thinking. No matter where you go or who you are with, in the end, a person is alone... I would be happy if there were someone who understood my feelings♡ Zura~

(wikipedia)
Hanamaru is a hardworking first-year student whose family runs a local temple without several modern-age utilities, such as computers and hand dryers. Because of this, she becomes enamored upon seeing modern technology, much to the surprise of others. She refers to herself as either "ora" or "Maru", and ends many of her sentences with "-zura" because of her Shizuoka dialect. She is also a member of a local choir due to her talent at singing. Before joining Aqours, she was an avid reader at the school's library. She and Yoshiko were friends during kindergarten, and Yoshiko calls her "Zuramaru."

(reddit opinion)

A: 
Guess it’s Hanamaru’s time to roll and destroy some spikes! (And quite close to her birthday!)

Sunshine has an unfairly distributed screen time, and Hanamaru is unfortunately one of those who got the short end of the stick. She’s a really sweet character, we can clearly see how much she cares for her friends, confronting Dia to allow Ruby follow her dreams is quite a feat for any of the first and even second years, yet she did it with a cool composure, and taking care of Yoshiko with her troubles, like the one where she got a messy hair or getting her back on track after she decided to not attend school just shows how reliable of a friend she is.

Her indoor attitude is relatable, once you get comfortable in the world of the books you barely have necessity of much else, so her choice of taking the step forward to venture onto the unknown after helping Ruby set her story was a moment that impressed me of her, but unfortunately after that she was just relegated to become a zura bot. Like, I know being holed in a library does disconnect you from the world, but you can’t actually be that disconnected that you have never seen a laptop right? Then agIn we are talking about 2015-16 ish, so I don’t really know. But it must be really bad if the first button you try to click on a laptop is the shut down button, I would have thought she would start with either space or enter, but I guess I am just wrong. Unfortunately there isn’t much more to add, her development really just stagnated in S1 imo, which is a pity. Also how the hell can one apply that many (I suppose or hope it is) layers of clothing when getting out on winter? She was a walking ball at that point, my initial thought was that she stuffed herself of a lot of food considering she was the foodie one of the group, and was concerned, but fortunately that was not the case.

I liked her more on her GnY variant ngl, although even there, she didn’t have any more impactful role, but at least I feel like she was better shown as a character and was really supportive towards Yohane. And in the games, I like how they even implemented her clumsiness with tech that she literally gets a laptop to turn it into a nuke against enemies, best skill but poor girl. Just Mirai Zura

Unfortunately that’s all I have to add, as I don’t have a favourite song of her, but I do like Azalea more than Cyaron, We’ll get the next dream!!! would be the subunit choice.

B: Maru's episode at the time was the most instantly sold I'd become on any idol. I went in knowing nothing about her (other than her "zura" tic and friendship with Ruby), and left with a strong contender for my favourite character overall. She was kind, sweet, a lovely support character, but had some insecurities herself that were all resolved brilliantly.

It was amazing to see a quiet bookish character in the franchise, especially away from the "anxious nerd" trope so commonly associated with that idea. It took guts and a lot of love for Ruby to confront Dia at probably her most scariest lol, while also actually getting through to her. She really impressed me with that. I was a bit confused by her insecurity with being "overweight" because she looked the same as the others to me, but it was a really sweet message nonetheless and I love how they tied it in with Rin. Relating two on-the-surface different characters like that is something I love seeing in the franchise, and Maru did it excellently.

But that's sadly all the positive things I can say. One amazing episode, no doubt, but after that I felt Maru was just butchered. Never relevant to the plot again, constantly ragging on Yohane in a way that to me felt like a complete mischaracterization, and becoming nothing but a Luddite being made the butt of fat jokes every two or so episodes. She has no growth outside of her S1 episode, barely any plot relevance too-- instead I felt she regressed into a weird caricature of herself. An over-exaggeration of 1-2 traits at the neglect of everything else.

On one hand I sort of get it-- her growth was done, what else could they do?-- but on the other hand I think it flied in the face of their character. It was like they thought her quiet bookish personality wasn't enough on its own, but Maru realizing it was was a key reason she joined in the first place. And I have to wonder, is there anyone who liked Maru's Flanderization after her episode? Every Hanamaru fan I know loved her S1 episode and was neutral to everything else at best.

It's such a shame. Hanamaru had such an amazing story, but it ended too quickly and had nowhere to go.

C: 
Mirai Zura! Hanamaru time.

Kunikuda Hanamaru is a wonderful character. I think most people don't often look past her surface, and just focus on the upfront parts of her, which is fine to some extent, but there's a lot going on with this girl that really makes her endearing.

You can't really not talk about one of her most memorable character traits. Zuramaru, as she's jokingly called by Yoshiko, is a pretty cute way of talking in my opinion. It's important to note that people don't talk like that, but I still love it and I'm glad that no one makes fun of her for it in the show.

Hanamaru's journey in season one largely is centered around her main episode. Realizing that she too, wants to be an idol, more than just helping out Ruby fulfill her dream. It's a nice touch, but it only briefly touches on the underlying parts of Hanamaru's character that are really important. Namely, her desire to help others being at odds with her own goals. Hanamaru, being a typically quiet, reserved girl, often tends to try to make other people happy before herself. Through Aqours, I think she learns how to be a bit more selfish (in a healthy way, of course).

It's perfectly fine to want to help others whenever you can't, but you shouldn't always do it at your own expense, and Hanamaru ends up accepting this in some fashion. You can see when it comes to her friends, she can be a very determined and passionate person. I'd like to think that Hanamaru learns how to embrace being more passionate about everything she loves over the course of the show. By season 2, she does mostly get sidelined in terms of upfront character development, but that's a discussion for another time.

Hanamaru's relationships with the other first years are very central to her character. At this point I've already mostly talked about how the rest of the cast see her, but Hanamaru plays an interesting, almost big sister type of role between Ruby and Yoshiko. She's very supportive of Ruby, but upfront and direct with Yoshiko. The three do have a very different dynamic than the other year-triplets that we see in the series.

Hanamaru is often not the center of attention in the show, and I think she's honestly okay with that. Unlike maybe Yoshiko or Mari, I think she's very okay with being in the background and helping everyone else out, provided that she can keep doing what she loves, and maybe has some chances to show her stuff. That's why I really love Mitaiken Horizon as a chance for Hanamaru to be a center in a song (even if it's not in the Anime).

In GNY, Hanamaru is one of the girls who ends up getting the most screentime. She seems to be a lot more personable in that version, and I think it's very cute that she's a baker with a giant pig. GNY focuses on the childhood friendship with Yohane a lot more, and while it's not technically the same character, I think that she cares just as much about her friendships in both versions.

Kinchan (Hanamaru's voice actress) has a really, really nice voice. If you don't listen to too much of the music outside of the anime, you may not hear it too much, but she has a really good tambre. It's also one of the lower voices in the show, which gives it a very nice quality when paired with everyone else. Also, congrats to Kinchan for getting married!

TLDR: 146/10 for Zuramaru, although she probably can't see this without destroying whatever tech she has. The more I hear Kinchan's voice the more I love it, stellar job from her. RubyMaru SSS-Tier ship, YohaMaru SS-Tier ship.

Zura!

D: Another rather timid and anti-social girl at the beginning that would perform an astonishing personal growth. Hinted by her far more mature appearance at the end of Rainbow.

It's also hinted there that she and Ruby become the new leaders and backbone to Aq's and the idol club at Tsuki's school. They're the only ones "triangle-free" at that point after all. YohaYou are holding hands after the second paper place scene, so both the ChikaYou and YohaRiri ships seem to have sunken sry this pun's just too tempting lol for good.

We see Ruby announcing "Next Sparkling", their welcome song at and to Tsuki's school presumably; so Chika passed on the leader torch. And Maru in "Mitaiken Horizon" seems to be inside Numazu's city hall where they finally brought their victory flag, instead of leaving in the sand under the weather, rotting.

A very mature-looking Maru allowed to enter the city hall for taking care of Uranoshi's former treasures? So has she become a special representative at Tsuki's school and a school council member? Or even the president?

Mitaiken Horizon also hints imo: The former 3rd still return as often as possible for new projects, or just for fun. Their farewell project: The Mitaiken Horizon PV, featuring pics and scenes from their past.

And featuring butterfly wings. Leaving the cocoon, turning into a butterfly. Also the "one winged angels" from Next Sparkling became that. And we'll see what Margarete will be able to make of her so far way darker butterfly symbol...

Mitaiken Horizon as Maru's "Happy Party Train", and Aq's "Song for You".

But most importantly Maru might be the messenger for two key aspects:

"MIRAI ZURA!!" to the shiny and shining spotlights. Modern tech replacing scifi and magic; and many key plot points wouldn't work without tech: The unpermitted uploads, the LL contest as a whole, also "Google Instant Translate" for SumiKeke, way later, also the "Cool Girls In STEM"... LL's "Mirai zura" story premise as I call it.

Little Yoshiko telling Little Maru she one day will become an angel and fly into the sky, over the rainbow. Not possible in the old LL setting that lacks the magic - but Yoshiko or Yohane soon would get "Genjitsu no Yohane"... Maru as the one who would keep Yoshiko "on the ground" in several situations, most notably during Dia's (by intention partly fake) explanation in E09 where Maru would block Yoshiko from ruining it all. Foreshadowing to Dia blocking Chika from talking back to Mrs. Ohara in Rainbow that would've ruined Dia's arrangement...

So we have the mature "glasses Maru", and the little Kindergarten Maru as messengers to some quite important plot points. Both in blue dresses: "Water Blue New World", and Maru would eventually enter her new world, foreshadowed already by her (and Yoshiko's) Kindergarten dress.

Maru's whole arc as one of the essential gears inside LLS's near-perfect story clockwork.

E: 
If there is one thing that encapsulates Hanamaru as a character it’s her center song: Mitaiken HORIZON. She could’ve used that time to take all of the spotlight. She could have used it to be in the front of the formations. She could’ve been the only one with a unique costume

But no.

She shares that spotlight with her fellow first-years. She wanted the first-years to have their colors. She gave everyone solo time.

SHE WANTED TO SPEND MOST OF HER CENTER TIME IN THE BACK OF THE FORMATION.

Hanamaru wasn’t meant to be the character that always had a problem or something to overcome—she is the one friend that you rely on. The one friend that you can lean to. The friend that always checks up on you. The one friend that knows when you are down and will pick you back up.

She may not have been the stand out, but that never meant that she was anyone less important.

She is important in Aqours and especially so in Yohane and Ruby’s lives.

And that’s why Zuramaru is KING and my favorite person in Love Live zura~

F: Hanamaru was a thing which was interesting to me, helping a story start for someone dear to her (That being Ruby) and so giving courage to her to comfront Dia about School Idols, helping Ruby start is something important, because sometimes, stories don't start unless something changes or someone gives the push, while that can be from Hanamaru's part the same as saying that she considers that her story won't start, or at least that was the point of Hanamaru looking at the School Idol Mag with Rin's Photo, Ruby returned to return her the favor because it wanted to start with Hanamaru since it considers her a friend dear too. (Usually childhood friends have imbalanced friendship in LoveLive tho)

But Hanamaru still considers that her story could not start even if it helps to Ruby story to continue. Surely, Aqours also has stories as the group. But Hanamaru considers herself stuck without a story at all during all Sunshine! Story, which sure, she hides it with fascination about things she don't understand and her hijincks about town people being behind in tech learning.

A lot of stories just can't start without a helping hand or a push.

Sometimes pushing forward people towards their story, their moment, can be a little bittersweet, because you know of that moment that you'll be left behind, as history, in the back of the mind where you can't remember, but at the same time, you'll know it's something dear to them, being left behind is natural. To learn to be forgotten for the moments people dear to you seek. That's not something anyone can do. Letting go for someone's sake.

Reading in the library and being librarian was probably because she was... 'Addicted' to the 'moments importants', like every reader does.

So yeah, do not have oshis since I don't know how that works, but she's pretty relatable to me, a reader-monster? And that does that type of heavy thing? Pretty spot on.

But yeah she also knows surely that those moments have an end, she'll be back in the front of the mind as a memory when it all ends, and if that doesn't happen, well, at least she did Ruby happy.
