
name        : Kanan Matsuura
kanji       :  松浦 果南
color       : #27c1b7
mbti        : ISTP(122), ISFP(48)

(idol.st)
background:
Kanan is a third-year student living on the offshore island of Awashima with her grandfather, who runs a diving shop there. In the anime, she had a hard time attending classes as she must take care of the shop while her father recovers from a fractured bone. She is able to attend classes from Season 1 Episode 9 onwards. Kanan is childhood friends with Chika Takami, You Watanabe, Dia Kurosawa and Mari Ohara.

In Season 1 Episodes 6, 8 and 9, it is revealed Kanan had actually formed a school idol group with Mari and Dia two years ago, having convinced the former to join. However, Mari had suffered an injury right before their performance, so she and Dia decided to step down and not perform. After Mari travels to study abroad, she becomes more distant to her peers. It is until Mari learns the truth when Kanan reconciles with her old friend, and decides to become a school idol once again.z

personality:
Breezily mature, Kanan rarely sweats the details and usually maintains a calm, cool and even stoic demeanor. Though she may seem a bit bland at first, she loves sports and nature, claiming that she is happy every day just by being able to see the dazzling sun, the blue skies and the sea. She isn't as talkative as her fellow third years, speaking the least of them in the anime, but is nevertheless friendly and laid-back.

Kanan is a very kind, warm-hearted and altruistic individual. She deeply cares for her friends, being very supportive and often putting their needs above her own, going to great lengths to ensure they get what she thinks is best for them. However, due to this, Kanan can fail to realize the others' feelings the same way she does, and she will go to the same lengths to hide the truth if it will hurt the person. This particularly caused her friend, Mari, to accept the chance of studying abroad when in reality she didn't want to, as Mari was content with being with her friends.

After Mari goes to study abroad, this causes Kanan to live with the weight of her lie, acting much more distant and aloof to Mari when she returns a year and a half later to Uranohoshi. When Mari learns the truth in Season 1 Episode 9, confronting Kanan and expressing how much she cares for her, Kanan finally reconciles with her old friend, stops being distant, and becomes friendly once again.

Due to the fact the second years are considered "the heart" of Aqours, Kanan has some difficulty relating to the first years, which is shared with Mari; this is due to her preference for the outdoors and for sports. Season 2 Episode 2 explores this, and after a rainy evening forces the girls to stay indoors, the first and third years are able to relate to the others, with Kanan seemingly relating to Hanamaru Kunikida the most.

While athletic, mature and composed, Kanan has a sweet and soft personality. She is also afraid of strange, creaking sounds as seen in Season 2 Episode 2, and afraid of heights as seen in Season 2 Episode 8. She also likes hugs ever since her childhood, and will often hug her friends if given the opportunity, usually declaring her catchphrase "Hagu shiyo" (ハグしよ "Let's hug") before so.

Although Kanan is intelligent and level-headed, she doesn't get very good grades. This is due to her poor attendance at school due to the fact she must help her family with work; with that said, it's also seen she doesn't like reading and easily gets tired of it.


(namu.wiki)

introduction:
I, Matsuura Kanan, am a third-year high school student helping out at my family's diving shop here in the sea of ​​Uchiura. Uchiura's pride is the blue mountains and the blue sea, and the dazzling sun and fluffy white clouds floating in the vast sky—just looking at such beautiful scenery makes me happy enough every day. Ah, but if I don't add the existence of my close childhood friend with whom I've been close for a long time —will Chika get angry? Hehe. My childhood friend Chika is a bit of a worrier and childish, but she is very spirited and always has exceptionally brilliant ideas—I think she's come up with something weird again recently. Still, when I'm swaying in the blue waves and swimming straight ahead without thinking about anything, my mind somehow goes blank. It's strange, isn't it? I feel like I should help my cute childhood friend with her plan first.

(wikipedia)
Kanan is a third-year student and Chika's childhood friend. Kanan lives alone with her grandfather on a nearby island where they run a diving gear shop. She is introduced as having taken a leave of absence from school, as she must take care of the shop alone while her father recovers from a fractured bone. She, Dia, and Mari are childhood friends who formed a school idol group in their first year named Aqours, but disbanded quickly, leading the three to separate. Kanan is responsible for their first disbandment, feigning stage fright to treat Mari's sprained leg and to convince her to pursue her studies abroad, all of which were kept secret by her and Dia. Kanan is the most athletic member of the group and acts as their main choreographer. She has a kind, supportive and selfless personality, and is also very mature and level-headed.

(reddit opinion)
A: The old joke among Sunshine fans goes, "Kanan who?" And it's a bit harsh, but man I dunno it's also kinda fair. Kanan was in a bit of an odd position in the start of S1: the way the cards fell with the rest of the show, the drama with her and Mari needed to be hidden for a while at the start. The writers' way of dealing with this was to very blatantly write Kanan out for a whole half of the season. I believe there was even an episode where she wasn't shown or mentioned at all.

And ordinarily in any other show this would be fine. Kanan's literary function is to be Mari's "antagonist", and she does this very well. She opposes Mari's actions but from a place of genuine care, and their conflict was nuanced and interesting-- when it was finally revealed. And that's the problem; Kanan was essentially put on hold. Sunshine is an idol show where you're very blatantly supposed to pick favourites, and what reason was there to pick Kanan? Very little at the start, unless you liked SCUBA diving or found her attractive.

And I still feel staff struggled to understand Kanan, even in S2 after the drama was finished. The SIF2 description for her was pitifully small, quite literally just one sentence. Mari's mom refers to her as "hug girl" in the movie-- and sure, Kanan does hug Mari once or twice, but is that all they could say about her? It felt incredibly reductionist. Her childhood friendship with Chika and You is brought up once or twice and never again, and that itself opens up Sunshine's biggest plot hole: if Chika and You were friends with Kanan while she was in the Kanan-Dia-Mari Aqours, why did they not know of the group? Would Kanan not have told them about it? Invited them to a performance, etc?

All that to say, I feel almost every detail about Kanan got forgotten. She was a character for plot purposes and nothing else, barely characterized outside of her brief antagonist role. Which is unfair, cause I like the "breezily mature" "rarely sweats the details" Kanan we vaguely see hints of, and despite it being slightly unpopular I do love her voice and especially her solo songs. But I never felt Kanan got any kind of depth.

B: Hagu Shiyou! Kanan time

I think about Kanan as the LL protagonist that didn’t get her show. She’s headstrong, passionate, and easily takes the central role between Mari and Dia. But we all know how her story played out, and it wasn’t meant to be for her. The years that followed changed Kanan a lot. Even after joining Aqours, she was still a bit more laid back. It’s not as though she mellowed out, but I think a part of her began to move on. It took Chika reconciling her relationship with the other third years to fully bring her back.

Kanan, like Hanamaru to some extent, doesn’t get too much screen time as compared to the rest of the cast. Her main development, therefore, is much more prominent during her main scenes in season 1 and season 2.

It’s pretty easy to extrapolate on her relationships with the rest of the cast, at least. She has a wonderful dynamic with Mari and Dia, and their relationship is the backdrop a lot of season 1. But the rest of the cast, she doesn’t get a whole lot of time with. She really cares for Chika like an older sister, especially evident in the Miracle Wave episode, but there aren’t too many smaller scenes where we get to see it. It’s my belief that You and Riko see Kanan as very reliable, and often go to her if they have worries or concerns about idol-related stuff. I think You specifically empathizes with Kanan about her struggles with her closest friends.

I feel that the first years look up to Kanan like a Senpai the most out of anyone. I think that Yoshiko in particular would have a very funny dynamic with Kanan just because Kanan wouldn’t understand (or just wouldn’t care) anything that she’s doing.

While Kanan doesn’t always get the spotlight on her, I think that she’s okay with that. She’s matured a lot after her first year, and I think she realizes that being the best school idol means more than just performing your best.

When Saint Snow comments on what Aqours is missing after losing the third years, Kanan’s most vital role is her form (dancing). We don’t often get to see dance specialists in Love Live, so Kanan at least getting some recognition for that is nice. She also evidently becomes Aqours’ main choreographer, and leads rehearsals in that area.

All in all, Kanan is a character that I love, and just wish I got to see more of. The Happy Party Train MV is great and I love Kanan getting a chance to shine as a centers GnY did a decent job at showing her off, but that show also could just use more time to develop its characters. I do find it a bit funny she made a frog robot that talks like a samurai.

TLDR: 84/10 for the hug girl. Suwawa has a very unqiue tambre that HPT manages to capture very well, but she’s always great to hear. KananDiaMari SSS-tier ship. Any derivatives of it are also okay

C: Kanan is one of the most caring characters of Aqours, and I honestly I really thought it was an interesting concept the being an antagonist out of care when the problem was settled, the way she just plotted the disbanding of the former Aqours just for the sake of Mari’s future was an act that must have taken a lot of thought and willpower, to give up on something you enjoy for a long time investment that will separate you from your best friend. But unfortunately for her, that probably costed her of most of her screentime? Attempting to find this thread yesterday, I realised I didn’t remember much about her, quickly did a search for a quick video about her and recalled of the little screentime she had, and felt sad about it honestly, she has a really good personality, she’s the calm and relaxed person that get the job done and a good bridge between Mari and Dia, but can also be headstrong and passionate like when it comes to idols. I really like that balance.

I also was kind of puzzled when I realised that despite her connecting with 2 groups of people, none of them knew about what was going on with the events happening of each group, although considering how Kanan is, I doubt she would be telling her idol group drama to Chika and You. Unfortunately there’s not much details of her with the other members. But I take the comfort of her at least having awesome moments with the third years, the episode where they went to see the stars in the mountains and each of them telling each other of their separate plans for the future was really moving. And her big sister role with Chika, from helping Chika find her courage in diving as a kid challenging her to improve during the Miracle Wave episode.

While I struggle to recall some details, I remember I found it funny how initially Dia wanted to user her to promote the food stall and after that I assume they went all running and she was the only one standing while everyone was dead exhausted. In S2 the only notable thing I could recall about being remotely funny was when she broke the mikan carts brake, and turned the transport system into an actual rollercoaster. The movies didn’t much more for her, unfortunately.

Overall I’m sad she got the short stick of of them, but honestly I think it’s fine, some people just like to do their part without stepping too much in the spotlight, which I relate to, and also probably one of the reasons I liked Shiki as well later on (I know I’m too early for this), and probably one of the most reliable characters to ask for guidance out of Aqours.

I also was surprised to see how in GnY they found a creative way to apply her diving capabilities with the utility of picking up junk and building a frog robot out of it.

My favourite song of her is Mottone, she definitely has a really nice voice. I may of course be forgetting some details, but attempting to do this at 5am is the best I could do.

D: In a way, Kanan was unique among LL girls. If you draw the relationship lines between all the girls of all the series immediately prior to the start of their series, you'll see that every girl knew only one or two of the other girls in their group at the most. Sometimes, these connections are childhood friends that go back years. Just as often, they only met in high school.

Except for Kanan. Somehow, she knew four of the girls in the group directly and had known them for nearly a decade by the start of the series. Directly or indirectly, she also knew of Ruby and, through both Kurosawa sisters, had an indirect connection to Hanamaru. That puts her at the center of a seven-person cluster out of the nine-person group, an unprecedented situation in the entire franchise.

She was the girl who knew (nearly) everyone else in the group. It should have been the foundation for a really strong group. Alas, events caused her to tear herself out of those relationships as far as idoling was concerned and that was not to be.

EDIT Additional comments:

Perhaps that's why they never had another character like Kanan again. Getting to know all these unconnected girls at the start of the series and roping them into the idol group provides half to three quarters of the stories of S1 of every LL series. Having strong established connections between almost all the group members even before the start of the series means having to come up with lots of new, different, kinds of stories for S1.

My pet theory on why Kanan is so fit is that she swims from Awashima to Uchura, then runs across town, up the hill to the 
shrine, then back to the island before open shop, every morning.

E: 
One of the "little screentime girls" - but quality beats quantity here once again.

Kanan the one who originally started the idol band called Aqours. And who was quite extroverted and optimistic back then.

But then Aq's became to Mari the last straw to grasp at for a desperate attempt at escaping an arranged marriage. I already mentioned the striking similarities to James from Pokemon.

And at the beginning Mari was as unlucky as James: DiaKanan couldn't help her, maybe Mari's parents even threatened DiaKanan. The true reason Kanan threw up and felt bad at the Tokyo Event?

She later must've told Yoshiko whom she often bumped into in the boonies while doing her morning workout. Yoshiko meanwhile was still up to cool down from her latest stream.

Both were dodging school at that time. After the debacle with Mari in their 1st year Kanan would escape further and further into a cocoon. No police would intervene in the school dodging (in a country like Japan mind you) due to the Oharas, the godfathers in that area, not being interested in such minor details? (Otherwise it would be the "handwaving" trope. But afaics a story like LLS always tries to "avert" such "asspulls").

And so YohaKanan often had a chat in the boonies; and so Yoshiko told us about Kanan vomitting (exclusively in the US dub, quite the stunt by the producers imo), an info that changes everything.

In the critical "Young Dreamer" ep Dia would pull off one of her signature stunts: She could've told Mari that Kanan threw up and felt bad. But this would've made Kanan shout out only yet another "piss off!" And so Dia pretended that Kanan virtually had sided with Mari's parents...

So a massive clash was now unavoidable.

MariKanan often fought already in the past (in the same ep also in the classroom, interrupted by Chika the "lancer" and "magnetic hero"), and always reconciled at and in the end.

And only if they reconciled again, Mari's rescue could be continued...

And Kanan gets a good flashback in time and neutralizes Mari's slap with a "haggu". The flashback: Little Kanan speaking out the English "haggu". Who told and taught her? Her American friend...?

It's the "inversion" to flashbacks like Eli's. She canalizes a past frustration into the present time. Kanan manages to grab a past healing force and to bring it into the present.

"Becoming the master of the forces", Cardcaptor Sakura phrasing. Hence "Sakura Sweets Fair" at Sunshine's beginning.

There Chika was in the lead, opening and starting Sunshine's and Aq's present onscreen chapter.

To Chika Kanan was of a crucial importance too, as her surrogate Onee-chan. Crucially important because of Chika's household being quite full of tension once again. And Kanan also did a better job than Misato who with her passive-aggressive "Idols? Yeah not so bad!" kinda phrasing triggered a critical crisis inside Ai, who got caught by Karin (who maybe once caught a "bossier" Emma this way, hence "I'm the boss from the school next door (YGI?)" in Nijiyon S3 E1).

Kanan unfortunately would develop into a similarly dismissive and abrasive behavior due to Mari's not yet solvable problems back then.

It would take until the campfire confession before Kanan fully and truly would accept her task.

Some (anti-)heroes need to fight like a nut to reach their goal - and some fight like crazy to not have to face a certain duty ("refusing the call"), yet the stars have already lined up and won't let their chosen one leave until the duty's fulfilled ("caught by the call")....

Kanan begins to realize this while sitting inside the "Happy Party Train" and looking through the window outside: She cannot leave, her life train has a destination, pun intended...

So many iconic and impactful scenes and plot points. Little screentime, but once again quality beats quantity.

F: This woman. THIS. WOMAN.

My #2 Love Live character of all time. Initially a mysterious character known to a few of the cast, but doing her own thing, becomes the center point of the strongest drama Love Live anime has ever offered. The way her drama with Dia and Mari played out leading into the third years joining was sublime while she played a support from the sidelines until then.

By season 2 she's critical to Aquors' performances. As the best dancer she shines in every performance and IMO is one of the big reasons Aquors go on to win Love Live. She bounces well off all of the cast and makes use of every minute of screentime she has.

By the movie she shifts well initially into an antagonist role before Mari's real motivation is shown, again shining every second she's on screen.

Kanan is the main reason I got into Love Live in the first place and is always insightful but tough whenever she's on screen.