
name        : Mari Ohara
kanji       : 小原 鞠莉
color       : #c252c6 
mbti        : ENFJ(179), ENTP(151)

(idol.st)
background:
Mari is a third-year student whose parents (her mother and Italian-American father) manage a hotel chain, Ohara Hotels and Resorts, including Hotel Ohara on Awashima Island (based on the actual Awashima Hotel, currently the Wyndham Grand Awashima) where Mari lives in a suite, which proves her upbringing from a very wealthy family.[1] She's childhood friends with Kanan Matsuura and Dia Kurosawa, knowing them since elementary school.

Due to her part Italian-American upbringing, Mari speaks with an accent and often inserts English words into her speech every few lines (in the English dub, the English words are replaced with Italian words).[2] She also tends to speak in the third-person.

She is first seen in the first episode flying in the family's helicopter, before formally appearing in Episode 3, where she becomes the director of Uranohoshi Girls' High School (despite still being a student) after her family contributed a large amount of money to the school. Season 1 Episodes 6, 8 and 9 reveal that she, Kanan and Dia formed a school idol group two years ago while on their first year, Kanan having convinced Mari to join. However, Mari had suffered an injury right before an important performance, so Kanan and Dia decided to step down and not perform. Later on, Mari leaves Uchiura to study abroad after the three disband their school idol group. Once Mari learns the truth in Episode 9, she confronts Kanan over it, but both reconcile with the other and decide to become school idols once again, joining Aqours alongside Dia.

personality:
Mari has a cheerful, eccentric and mischievous personality, makes many jokes, and often prefers to work by herself. She always keeps her chin up when faced with hardship so as not to burden others, and is ready to try her hand at anything. However, as a half-foreigner, she does not feel that she is very suited to being a Japanese-style idol.

Despite Mari's cheerful personality, there are times when she can be serious as shown in Season 1 Episode 9.

Mari speaks with an accent, and she has a high, cheerful voice. Mari often inserts English words (Italian in the English dub) into her sentences, but when she is sad or serious, the pitch of her voice becomes lower, she loses her accent, and she uses English words less.

(namu.wiki)

introduction:
Ehhh!? Me, an idol? I don't think that suits me~♪

Ehhh!? You want me to be an idol? Does that mean I should become one of those funny girls who all wear the same frilly clothes and dance like it's a kindergarten talent show!?!? ......Ah, sorry. I didn't mean to be mean. They are really pretty, aren't they? Japanese idols— I think so too. I do, but still, it's a bit hard for me, SO HARD— Yeah, I don't think it suits me. Hahahahaha─♪ The music I like is industrial metal . Sorry. I'll be cheering for you guys from afar♡ Well then, I have a horseback riding lesson now, so I'm heading home? Ciao~♪♪

(wikipedia)
Mari is a third-year student at Uranohoshi. Her Italian-American father runs a hotel chain[7] and she lives in one of their hotels. Mari is an energetic individual who prefers to take action by herself, and does not feel herself to be suited to become a school idol. Her favorite music genre is industrial metal. Due to her background, Mari has an American accent and often mixes English and Japanese (Italian in the English dub) in her speech. Mari's family is one of the main sponsors of Uranohoshi, to the point she was appointed as the school's chairman despite being one of the students. She was childhood best friends with Dia and Kanan, and previously formed an idol unit with them, though it disbanded early on due to Kanan and Dia wanting her to pursue a scholarship she got at a school overseas. Her catchphrase is "Shiny!" (シャイニー, Shainī), which she tends to exclaim whenever she gets excited.

(reddit opinion)

A: Honestly, I really don't have that much to say about Mari. Not because I dislike her; quite the opposite. I think in fact she's just so well-written, all I'd be doing is pointing to every part of her story and going "wow, wasn't that great?" Her goofy half-crazed rich-girl persona, the way it was slowly peeled back to reveal the awful past she'd been put through, her ability to self-reflect and give warning advice to You, all culminating in her movie plot of refusing to be married off-- all brilliant. Mari is a lot like Chika in that regard I think, a free-spirited type who refused to give up no matter the circumstances she was given.

If I had anything to criticize, I think her relationship with Kanan and Dia is a bit of a stretch. They're both pretty strict rules sticklers, so I struggle to understand why they were always so supportive of Mari and her escapades. But even that has nothing to do with Mari, really. I also think staff are cowards for not giving her the industrial metal song she rightfully deserves, but that's neither here nor there. (And Guilty Kiss is close enough.)

That's really all I've got. Mari is a brilliant no-notes character.

B: 
Shiny! (Sorry to steal the catchphrase Isaac) Mari time.

I honestly found her a pretty fun character, she’s always so active and goofy, pretty much couldn’t get bored when having her on screen, and while I wasn’t too caught on Aqours on my first watch, she definitely had an impact on me, she’s always even was my 3rd favourite before Yohane stole her place after GnY.

I can kinda relate to her past too, my parents were really strict with my outings as a kid, and while I wasn’t too caught not forbidden from it I was a bit shy so it would always be my friends that would have to ask me if I wanted to hang out and confront my parents for it, to then be separated from them by also having to move another country when I started middle school, I missed them quite a lot a bit at first but had to move on while keeping them in whatever way I could, so her backstory definitely hit hard with me and seeing how she overcome her situation made me realise how well she did, and her helping You with her experience was definitely a heartwarming thing to see (she really made an aggressive approach tho, getting flipped by You and hitting the ground mushy have been a good experience).

I initially thought she was the equivalent of Nozomi in Aqours, by being so grabby, (which admittedly, she does it quite a lot to Kanan, specifically), but then her past relationship and backstory hit, and scrapped that. It was incredible to see how she was formerly the one least interested about being an idol, but then got to be the most serious about it (I know it was to save the school, but risking an injury must have taken dedication). She’s also pretty stubborn, trying to convince Kanan so many times to join even after being rejected so many times, and the scene where she sided with Chika after she yelled her seniors to get in the club room was hilarious. I almost cried after that though, with how determined she was to solve her gap with Kanan. It also was heartbreaking to see her giving her last speech during the “campfire” and when they had to close the school though.

And I seriously doubted her cooking capacity when I saw her mixing a soup like a witch to her potion cauldron, definitely didn’t expect to turn well, and glad she got the recognition in S2.

Her relationship with the 3rd years is wholesome, I loved their part in S2 where all of them had decided their futures but still kept them connected, but besides You and Chika I don’t remember her bonding with anyone else? (Been a while since I watched SS, sorry). I found it interesting how Kanan and Mari were into metal, while the first years weren’t. (And for that reason Yoshiko being in GK was all the more surprising and better for me).

Overall I like her a lot, she’s a great character but I don’t have too much to say on her, she’s definitely great the way she is.

As for favourite song, while Shiny Racers is my favourite individual song of her, I definitely like her more for how she combines with GK, 3 of my top 5 characters put together delivering bangers, Shooting Star Warrior is my favourite and her being the center was impressive, Ainya definitely did an amazing performance. Also find it fun how she’s the tiniest Aqours Seiyuu voicing the tallest Aqours character

C: SHAI-NEE!!! It’s Mari time

Ohara Mari is such a wonderful character. Her overly flashy and bombastic personality coupled with her deep empathy for the people around her is such a fantastic combination that I can’t help but love every moment she’s on screen.

Unlike some of the other girls, Mari wears her heart on her sleeve from the get-go. From the moment she arrives (in a helicopter!) she knows exactly what she wants and she shows it. Her relationship with Kanan and Dia is one of the central focuses of the entire show, and while it is a bit soap opera-esque, I really don’t mind.

Because Mari is VERY upfront about herself, there’s not a whole lot of subtlety about her journey in the show. I’ll list some important pieces of her character, but it’s mostly obvious. For example, she loves loud, heavy metal music, overemoting to things, and generally being 110% most of the time as a reaction to her parents keeping her sheltered when she was young. I don’t even think she’s doing it to spite them, but it’s just how she is.

But what really makes me love Mari is that behind all of that is a very deeply caring person. She is always looking out for her two best friends, and the rest of Aqours as a whole. She became director of Uranohoshi (I guess the teachers just didn’t really care) entirely because she wanted to help her friends. Sometimes, this results in her taking on extra responsibility or extra pressure so that they don’t have to, but Mari never complains about it.

Two of my favorite scenes from Mari both show off this side of her. The first is her consoling You, and the second is at the end when she makes a speech to everyone at the Uranohoshi bonfire. With You, not only does she figure out what’s wrong with her, but she also reminds her that this what her friends are here for. It’s a very touching scene that really speaks to Mari’s emotional maturity (even if she doesn’t often show it). Her speech to the students really shows how much she cared about the school, and how despite seeming to act very nonchalant, she tried her best to keep the school alive.

What’s neat about Mari is that we get to have a good look at her relationships with the rest of the cast very clearly over the course of the show. That’s why the MaiMaiTonight prep episode is always fun to watch. Mari does tend to act like a bit of a big sister to the first years, but in a bit of a different way than Kanan (and, well, Dia I guess). I think she’s probably the easiest of the third years for them to feel comfortable with, and I just wish we had a bit more time to see them interact.

We see a lot of Mari with Chika and You, but it’s easy to extrapolate how she is with Riko. In a similar way to Kanan, Riko’s pragmatism would be a bit at odds with Mari’s playfulness.

Of course, her relationship with Kanan and Dia is very central to the story, so there’s not much I need to add here.

In “Over the Rainbow”, Mari is at the forefront for a bit of the movie. Hop Stop Nonstop, in addition to being one of my favorite songs, is also her first Center song! In addition, Leah comments that, with Mari gone, Aqours is missing out on her voice. Which is interesting because she doesn’t get too much time for it to shine. But she definitely has a very unique tambre that makes it one of the easiest to recognize (thanks Ainya).

As for GNY, it was very interesting to see Mari go from the bombastic girl to a very shy and reserved queen of darkness. I like to think of it as how she would be if Kanan and Dia didn’t rescue her when she was young. It’s very nice to see her open up, but she definitely feels like one of the most different characters to her counterpart in Sunshine.

Lastly, I have to mention Ainya, Mari’s Seiyuu. Following the voice actors isn’t for everyone (it took me a while to even learn their names and start to recognize them), but she is always hilarious whenever I see her. There are plenty of compilations on YouTube of her just being herself, and it’s really fun to watch. Sasuga Ojii-san!

TLDR: 192/10 for the shiny girl. Ainya does a phenomenal job with her, and she’s always such a joy to watch. KananDiaMari Z-tier ship.

二年ぶりです!

D: 
Mari's a great character, and interesting for being the inverse of Dia who initially seems like a no-fun Seto Kaiba but turns out to be quite caring and even goofy. Mari seems like a carefree manic pixie at first but turns out to be quite serious and sad.

However, her Crazy Rich girl role never sat well with me, because if I don't suspend disbelief, she becomes a case of Class Conflict in Love Live.* But since the franchise opened that can of worms by having Ren's dad throw money at Yuigaoka to solve the problem, it becomes harder to ignore how all that money Mari blew on Stewshine and private helicopters could have went towards saving the school instead. For instance, that kind of money could fund a Numazu tourism campaign far beyond anything Chika and co. could accomplish on their own. And while her parents don't at all come off like benevolent philantropist types (itself another can of worms), they could theoretically pay to make Uranohoshi a heritage building and keep the school open, even getting a nice Generous Donor plaque to brag about.

This is the problem with treating "rich" as a character trait rather than thinking through its implications. But a lot of cartoons do that, and it does require a fair bit of disbelief suspension. But I thought the Stewshine jokes were crass back then, and only got worse in the age of inflation.

*Natsumi's arc also has interesting class conflict inplications.

E: 
I really appreciate how well Mari’s nationalities and ethnicities are written. You’d think that someone who’s half Japanese, half Italian-American and is Japanese, American, and Italian (as in a citizen) and has lived in all three countries would be very confusing but the writers never handled it that way. It’s rare for a mixed or foreign Love Live girl to actually have her other (or only) nationality/ethnicity written in a way that works with the story isn’t just the group’s token foreigner and Mari is the best example of that. Who cares that Ainya speaks very little English and no Italian? They’re hard languages to learn from Japanese and her pronunciation has gotten a lot better over the years. (Her rotic rs and pronouncing of the i in words like “magic” as “ih” is really cool for somebody who doesn’t really know much English.) That aspect of Mari is incredibly interesting and well-written and I really appreciate the effort the writers put in to doing all of Mari’s countries justice.

Aside from that, Mari is just really well-written period. She’s funny, hard-working, sometimes lonely, has relatable struggles with losing friends and depression, etc. She’s always so fun to have around is by far my favorite Aqours girl and one of my top three in the whole franchise. Love you Mari, stay shiny!!

F: 
r/anime, r/animequestions, r/animesuggest, and the like - and frequently I mention "LLS" as one of the best and influential animes, and Mari as one of the most well-written characters.

Both in the same league as Evangelion, Haruhi, Madoka, Sailor Moon too, and other works that look "far more gigantic" at first glance - but whose innermost core still consists of the personal dramas and the characters that constitute the dramas.

Trope-wise Mari's the "static character" that never loses sight and lets go of her goal.

Her goal: Fleeing an arranged marriage. Trope-wise "the escape", turned into "the rescue" by none other than Dia who's suffering from a similar fate, as I recently learned. (The quintessential SID again. Was Dia's escape arc ever resolved...?)

I mean this changes everything once again: Mrs. Ohara underwent the same presumably, Dia too - so Dia had the perfect argument to literally connect with Mrs. Ohara.

The result: Mari's mom showing up in Italy without any body guards or police, and Tsuki even bowing to her. So can we assume it's a stageplay? Dia even blocks Chika from talking back to Mrs. Ohara. So Dia did play a key role. And Tsuki's her school council president counterpart for the school merger anyway.

Luck once again one of the chess pieces.

And Mari needed a luck that's galactic in scale (Haruhi quote):

Mari was most unhappy already as elementary school student (trope-name: Fridge horror). We could rly see it in her face, couldn't we? The one pulling her out already with her smile: Kanan (who did so already on Chika. Most symbolically: "Super Mario pants" on little Kanan. Saving the Princess; but in a world with no "super mushrooms" - except for music...)

Dia, back then also rather timid, was always "dragged along" by MariKanan, whose idol band "Aqours" triggered a defrosting process also inside Dia (who would then "play Muse" together with Ruby. And Ruby had cardboard wings, foreshadowing Next Sparkling, when Ruby too at long last would finally have fully defrosted...)

But in their 1st year KananDia couldn't help Mari as we know, and Mari had to leave.

Only when Chika the "magnetic hero", "lancer" and "manic pixie dream girl" (together constituting the "genki leader"), Riko the "musical engineer" (of Maki's caliber only a few years after Maki in the same region; speaking of luck as one of the chess pieces again), and another 4 members (or in truth 6 thanks to Saint Snow) showed up - the rescue mission could fully start off...

So once again it's actually the finale to a far longer story and journey, similar again to Madoka Magica that starts off only at the beginning of Homura's 100th and final timeline, to Evangelion whose TV show begins a few months before the "apocalypse", and Sailor Moon too that's showing us the middle part of a saga that goes far into the past and future...

"In the middle" = "in medias res", yet another trope...

But the true reasons why LL's the "new Sailor Moon" imo:

blonde "silly" main character whose true fate goes 180° into the opposite direction

the whole story often laughed at, and at the same time the fandom keeps growing and remains loyal

also because the story created quite a lasting impact (in Sailor Moon's case no less than Evangelion, confirmed by Anno the Sailor Mercury fan himself). Sunshine's equivalent would be "Belle" the virtual idol rescue story that ends with a "triple haggu". 14 minutes standing ovations in Cannes...

Kanan's public confession to Mari

and this whole "package" bostering many fans up instead of dragging them down

And both are stories driven by their main protagonists and their "living plot armors".

(personality-database.com opinion)

A - ENFJ: Okay: so bruh WHAT- K here’s Fe argument I really don’t see ENTP. I think she’s ENFJ but I don’t really know how to explain Ni (cus Ni is itself hard to explain), I might add it as a comment later but for now here’s Fe (I could also see ESFJ but I think ENFJ - either way ExFJ > ENTP)

Fe- Despite her jokey, careless attitude that seems ENTP-ish, she always seems to absorb and kinda focus on the feelings of others. She’s also naturally good at knowing what words will motivate and support the other members in their time of need. She also takes much notice to others and their relationship. She knows enough about You and her and Chika’s relationship, and specifically her feelings about her and Riko, to reach out to her effectively and naturally. And her within her interactions with trying to remedy her issues with Dia and Kanan she seems stuck on trying to make harmony between them and only near the end does she let out her not so cheery and agreeable feelings. There’s a lot of small scenes that I think kinda show this as well, (like where in All Stars she’s playing a game with the MC and she’s able to recall her understanding of their feelings that led to their victory, and in a side profile thing (I forgot what it was) that seems to be a retelling of Chika asking Mari to join Aqours she says something like “idols? Like those weird girls who dance like kids?” even though she doesn’t really seem to think that given that she was in and wants to be in an idol group and mostly seemed to say that from her awareness of how idols are overall viewed by a lot of the society, etc.)

B - ENTP: Hey, I saw all this discussion about whether she is ENFJ or ENTP, and honestly, even though my knowledge about the MBTI is not great and I may even stereotype at times, I would like to give the reasons why I think Mari is an ENTP and not an ENFJ, and sorry if sometimes I express myself in a strange way or some sentence is poorly formulated, English is not my mother tongue.

I can understand why you can see "Fe-dom" and even "Ni-aux", but I think the functions of an ENTP are more suitable for her to begin with.

Ne: I think it's very obvious, when something doesn't catch her attention she just falls asleep, like when she watched the video made by the girls in episode 6, or in Dia's explanations, in one of her explanations she directly tries to pretending to be awake (it doesn't work but the idea is still there), besides trying to save her school through School Idols is something fanciful (characteristic she shares with Honoka, a Ne-dom user and even more having more competition after all what Muse did), besides letting them do the club breaking the rules in her role as director (with a test to see if it could work, of course, but it doesn't change the fact that she literally flouted the rules), and her unconventional way of handling the closure of his school, letting it be painted over, plus I’d like to add the fact that something is not directly said in the series and maybe doesn't quite count as a reason, but it's very likely that Mari knows how to play the guitar because in the episode where third and first year get together to create a song she exposes a song of the metal genre as one of her songs, although, in fact, other types are more likely to have an affinity or desire playing an instrument, the Ne-doms are also known to try different things and experiment with these.

Ti: One of the characteristics of the ENTPs is to give a logical filter to their Ne through their Ti, I think this is also quite noticeable when she let the girls create the club precisely with the test they did to see if there was a possibility that it could really work and thus give it a logical basis to at least try it, in addition to the quote "Amount of effort is not proportional to results!" I think it is very Ti over Fe, because it could be seen as not considering the feelings of the others, giving more priority to logic, also both in the anime and in All Stars, we are told that Mari is good at negotiating and proves it to us, certainly I do not remember at least if there is any dialogue showing Mari negotiating, but for her spontaneous nature I think it would be more natural for her to do it in a Ne-Ti way than in a Fe-Ni way.

Fe: She has a very good Fe, that is what makes many not see her as an ENTP, so I will expose some cases where her tertiary Fe is more noticeable, omitting the example I gave about her Ti over her Fe, we can see in the entire arc between Kanan and Mari as, despite the fact that she was already trying to make things go as before, she cannot be completely honest with Kanan until just episode 9, the same when Mari calls Kanan to tell her about the problem that she had with Uranohoshi currently, where instead of being direct from the beginning she prefers to hide what she really means by talking about her weight, that is until she starts crying, also let's remember that Ne is one of the most introverted extroverted functions, while Fe is probably the most extroverted function, what I want to get to with this, although being a child she did not have a clear MBTI and her dominant function was still developing, we can see Mari very nervous and even with wanting to cry when introducing herself for the first time in her class, although this does not entirely indicate something, if we go between what is more possible, I think that Ne would fit more, speaking of Ne by the way, with the example of You when she was suffering with Chika, and Mari decided to help You, although his Fe is very clear there, let's remember that Ne can also be a nosy function with things that interest them, and I mean, she went through a similar situation and You after all is her friend, it is normal that she is interested, although in fact this event could be perfectly related to her Ne, Fe and Si, and perhaps Ti being the only one who realized it and also providing a kind of solution at the time, but at what I want to get across is that this is not purely Fe and now, I cannot see it as a sufficient argument to indicate that she is an ENFJ.

Si: All her reasons for trying to save the school are through Si, of course, that there is also Fe and it is very noticeable, but she herself says that it is because of all the memories that she created in the school, although it is not an exact example of inferior Si, the function itself is still there

C - ENTP: why ENFJ? i think people got settled on the idea of her being one because of the excessive comparison there used to be between μ's and Aqours and she, for some reason, was compared to nozomi, but this girl just has TONS of Ne! mari is playful about anything and her ideas lead her to try to make Aqours do the weirdest things for fun, while i couldn't say i see her as someone who has insights and is lead by them instead of her ideas. Ne+Fe is the perfect combo for her, paired with her secondary Ti, which she shows she can use well when thinking quickly and solving problems creatively (take a look at how witty she is!) and inferior Si which makes her not interested in doing things in a conventional way. pretty clear ENTP to me, let's get mari to the right type!!
