
name        : Riko Sakurauchi
kanji       : 桜内 梨子
color       : #ff9eac 
mbti        : ISFJ(159), ISTJ(95)

(idol.st)
background:
Riko is a second year transfer student from Otonokizaka High School, who joined Uranohoshi after moving from Akihabara, Tokyo. She is in Chika Takami's class and is also neighbors with her.

When Riko lived in Tokyo, she used to play the piano, practicing in the same room as former student and μ's member Maki Nishikino did at Otonokizaka. However, an incident happened at a live play on which she was unable to play the piano due to scenic panic, and since then she wasn't able to improve on her play. After moving to Uchiura, Chika learns of this in Season 1 Episode 2, and suggests that Riko should become a school idol with her and You Watanabe, in hopes it would inspire Riko.

personality:
Riko is a reserved, kind, polite and modest girl who likes indoor activities, acting as a foil to her friends, the more energetic Chika and You. She is rather shy, but is nevertheless affable and friendly. However, while she is generally quite levelheaded, calm and mature, she often flies into a panic when under pressure, jumping to conclusions and making mistakes. Because of this, and a previous incident on which she failed to play the piano in front of a live audience, she doesn't think she's special, and doesn't want to become a school idol. However, her friend Chika drags her into it, in the hopes this would inspire her to keep playing the piano.

In spite of her quiet and reserved personality, Riko has cynophobia: she loses her calm when she sees a dog (or anything she deems similar to one), to the point of moving recklessly when faced with one directly. This is commonly seen throughout most of Season 1 (starting with Episode 2) and is finally expanded upon in Season 2 Episode 5. After she and Yoshiko Tsushima temporarily take care of a dog in the same episode, her fear of dogs is revoked and she eventually understands she likes them, getting her own in Season 2 Episode 13.

Riko can also be quite playful and dorky, this is especially seen with Chika, an example being when she copies Chika's "normal monster" act to help Chika combat her hopelessness in Season 2 Episode 1. Additionally, after the events of Season 2 Episode 5, her interactions with Yoshiko causes Riko to start acting like her at times and be called "Lili" (Riri) by her, which annoys Riko. (This name is derived from Lilith, a demon in Jewish mythology, and is also the double pronunciation of the first syllable of her name.)

(namu.wiki)

introduction:
Uranohoshi Girls' High School[12] I am Riko Sakurauchi, a second-year student. I am just a transfer student from the city—a very ordinary high school girl with a very plain personality . I said that many times—but I was dragged here by Chika-chan , who is so stubborn and doesn't believe me at all, and before I knew it, I ended up becoming a school idol. So, I have absolutely no confidence in doing well as an idol—but for the sake of everyone who relies on me even like this, I hope to be of some help right now. When I first came to this school in the middle of Mt. Mikang, it was a series of surprises, but now it has become a place I really love. My dream is to fulfill the dreams of everyone who gave me such a special place. I think I learned for the first time in my life that there is such a way—after coming here.

(wikipedia)
Riko is a kind, polite, modest, and down-to-earth second-year student at Uranohoshi Girls' Academy. She previously went to μ's former school, Otonokizaka Academy in Akihabara, but was unaware of the group before becoming a school idol. She is a talented young pianist, but felt that she had stopped improving, and moved to Numazu to take inspiration from the sea. She is also a capable violist. She has a fear of dogs, which is not helped by the fact that the Takami family's dog, Shiitake, seems to take an interest in her. She eventually gets over her fear of dogs to the point that she now loves them, and adopts her own puppy by the end of the series. She is also revealed to have an interest in various shōjo and yuri manga, often buying collections on her brief returns to Tokyo. After joining Aqours, she becomes the composer of the group.

(reddit opinion)

A: She's my favourite in Aqours. Her dorky personality is cute & silly especially when paired with Yoshiko.

But I think her main charm is just that she's plain and normal. Even more a 'Normal Monster' than Chika. Aside from her piano skills there's really nothing much to her, like she's just there. She's like a balancing force that keeps the 2nd years in check and probably the rest of the girls after the 3rd years graduate.

But there's nothing wrong with being plain. We appreciate her for that.

Also Rikako is the literal opposite of her I love watching her mess things up especially during namas.

B: Sakurauchi Riko. What a wonderful character.

Her journey in season one of the show is one of the most compelling and enjoyable story arcs across the entire franchise. Combine that with an incredibly entertaining and emotionally complex character, as well as one of the best songs ever made, and you can see why I love Sunshine so much.

Riko’s journey in season one is essentially a big buildup for OYHNN. In one of the first episodes, where they go Scuba Diving with Kanan, Riko hears a few notes which outline the main melody, and it’s just such an amazing moment. You have these metaphorical elements coming from water and the sea (referenced in the title of the piano arrangement Riko plays), as well as the main ideas being teased at all the way the beginning.

Riko’s journey also has a lot to do with her relationship with Chika. I think that Riko comes to care about her so much because Chika always believed in her. After moving out to Numazu, Riko had definitely lost a lot of her self-confidence, so some like Chika being her biggest supporter definitely ended up meaning a lot to her. Once Aqours really began to get going, it also created a family for her.

So when Chika was feeling down, Riko helped her out by believing in her as well. Her phone conversation with You as well when she was in Tokyo was one of my favorite characterization moments for Riko. Not only because Riko was able to so much more easily share her emotions with You, but because it showed how deeply she cared about You as well.

In season 2, Riko’s development is left a bit on the back burner, in favor of the third years and first years (aside from her episode with Yoshiko at least). But even then, that episode is a bit more about the two of them understanding each other a bit better and learning how to take on some more responsibility. I kind of wish these two had more time to play off of each other, because their dynamic is really enjoyable.

Even so, Riko’s growing love for Uranohoshi is really emotionally meaningful, and it’s great to see how she cares, despite having only just moved to the town.

From a bit more of a meta standpoint, I always have a lot of love for the composers. The songs that she makes for Aqours, at least in-universe, are so amazing. Also, it takes a lot to be the one of the gayest character in a franchise that has girls proposing to each other, and Garasu no Hanazono. But Riko really does put the Ri in Yuri.

Not quite as Riko-related, but Rikako Aida is such a gremlin at times. You can find a lot of moments on YouTube. Her banter with Arisha is great as well.

TLDR: 0M0140817075U/10 for Riko-Chan. RKK is always so fun to watch, and has a wonderful voice. YohaRiko-SSS tier ship, ChikaRiko SS-Tier ship (mostly carried by Kougi Hiroshi, check out their work).

Extra note: OYHNN is one of the few songs which the anime doesn’t actually do much justice for. The way it’s structured doesn’t quite fit well into a 1:30 time slot, so if you somehow haven’t, please listen to the full version. It’s one of the best songs from the entire franchise.

C: 
Riko is such a fantastic character, and my second favorite in the franchise overall. She’s essentially the deuteragonist of the first season. Combing Chika who has passion but lacks talent, and Riko who has talent but lacks passion formed an early, compelling core to Sunshine.

Starting out as a character who seems to have sunk into a depression, Riko’s journey throughout season 1 really hits home. I personally really related to the sentiment of “nothing is fun anymore” in the early episodes, and watching her get taken on a ride by Chika and slowly recover her passion was part of what originally drew me to both her and the show. Her growth is slow, but natural. And I enjoy how the series lets her do what’s best for herself, rather than contort to what’s best for the group. Riko feels like she has her own internal life. I also enjoy how much stronger she gets through the series! She starts as someone who needs a lot of support, but as the series goes on she’s able to return that, to Chika, You, her community. I really felt how much Riko values the relationships being a member of Aqours brought her.

Also she’s the closest we have to a canon lesbian and I love that for her. Disaster gay. 

If I have any complaints about Riko, it’s that she gets demoted heavily in season 2. I don’t know if it’s that they ran out of ideas, or ship pivoting. Whatever the reason, it’s disappointing. She kind of turns into a comedic prop, and I missed her prior depth. I would be okay with her taking a backseat after season 1, but she still gets quite a bit of screentime -  none of which really serves her as a character in any way. The biggest development is her getting over her fear of dogs, but honestly that episode didn’t work for me as a Riko development story. It’s not really an episode about Riko, rather it’s an episode Riko is in for Yohane’s sake. Wish any time has been spent on Riko’s issues in that. Sorry dog episode fans. I’ll talk more on the Yohane side of that when we get to her.

D:I think my favourite moments in Love Live-- really, the reason I keep coming back to the franchise-- are when characters get their lives explored and turned around by being an idol. Their hurt is examined, their problems are eased, and they end the show in a better place than they started. It helps me form a connection with them, it makes them feel real, and it really gives me a reason to cheer them on further.

Riko I think is one of the best examples of this, if not the best overall. More than any other character I felt Riko was growing and healing every episode, to the point where S1E01 Riko and S2E13 Riko almost feel like different people. She starts off as this out-of-luck pianist, struck with social awkwardness, nerves, and quite frankly an unhealthily low mood. Looking back at discussion threads from when Sunshine was airing I saw a lot of people theorize Riko was depressed, and I really do get it. She's certainly in a pretty deep rut, either way.

And then the show takes her for a ride. Well, Chika, really. She overcomes little anxiety after little anxiety, re-sparks her inspiration again with Chika and You (who I imagine the "sound of the ocean" is really about), and breaks out of her depressive rut to become a happy, content, fully-realized person. She even gets over her fear of dogs in S2! (Anecdotally I got over my fear of dogs the same way; my parents just bought one and I had to live with it, so that helped me relate to Riko a lot lol.) Riko's maturation from start to finish was a joy to watch, and I loved seeing her blossom into the fully realized person the show ended with. Ending back in Otonokizaka with her happily playing the piano is my favourite conclusion to any character arc in Love Live. It just felt so right, like a conquering of the place she once feared. I like to think Maki would have been proud of her.

Her relationship with Chika was really sweet, too. I feel in a way Riko is a sort of mashup of Umi and Kotori, at least in terms of "relationship to the protagonist". She brings Umi's strictness to Chika (which let's be real is direly needed at times), but combines it with Kotori's warmth and kindness, and never lets Chika doubt that she completely adores her. I sometimes think staff were trying to rectify SIP wrongs with Riko lol, especially after Chika "let her go" to her piano tournament. This I think was Sunshine S1's greatest moment, for both Riko's continued development and Chika's maturation. It really showed how much Chika cared, and how much she wanted every Aqours member to find their own radiance.

Her disaster lesbian status was also pretty funny, and fitted nicely with her character. Sometimes I get tired of the same characteristics being played for laughs in Love Live, but that never happend with Riko I feel, they never wore out the joke. Maybe it would have been cool if she came out, to bolster representation for that kind of thing and contribute to her running arc of growing and opening up, but I don't really mind that she didn't.

If there's any criticism I can make of Riko, it's her treatment of Yohane after their episode together. Not that I disliked that episode (I know it's controversial, but I'll save that for Yohane's discussion), or that I dislike Riko and Yohane having a relationship. I think they worked quite well in the episode, actually. I just don't like that Riko started treating Yohane flippantly after it, especially since she was now the only one to know about Yohane's mentality. It felt out-of-character for Riko who's usually pretty empathic, and unfair to Yohane who got ragged on pretty hard by the other members.

Overall though it wasn't enough to make me dislike her. Riko's 100% my favourite in Aqours, and very close to my favourite character in the whole franchise. Her songs are great, her personality is great, her growth is great. She's just such a good character to cheer for.

E:Riko chan beaaaaaaaaaammm!

The first character that I got interested, and after that, my favourite character of Aqours (I may seem to have a trend in liking composers?), in my opinion she has the greatest development out of all the Sunshine cast, from her moving to Uranoshi from Otonokizaka after losing her confidence, meeting Chika and joining her journey in the club, starting as just a composer to actually to becoming an actual idol to heal her own internal wounds and overcoming her low self esteem and fears (both piano and dog wise), it definitely caught me and therefore strengthened my interest in her, she really has gone a long way in her Sunshine journey, from an outsider (as she denominated herself in GnY) that had lost her fun in piano to someone who deeply cared about Uranoshi.

She also has plenty of funny moments as well, with her just attempting to dive when just getting in Numazu, to her comedically exaggerated moments with Shiitake (I can’t avoid laughing every time I see the “She’s flying” moment, her disastrously clumsy yuri addict hobby, her interactions with Chika and how she made that funny face from her notebook, that she did again in the YohaRiko episode, to her sad moment Nocturne left which led Yohane and Riko to be in sync, and how she would know when Yohane would be calling her Little Demon Lily even in text messages, unfortunately I can’t remember much more rn, maybe a rewatch is in order.

Her relationships with the second years was the most notable, with Chika and Riko supporting each other by indirectly aiding mutually on the weakness of the other, like how Riko was the talent Chika needed to start the idol plan, which for her it was the miracle she needed, and Chika reigniting the dim flame Riko had as her passion, giving confidence to the other when in struggle, while with You it cheering her from her struggles to be able to dance again with Chika, and supporting her, that showed me how much she cared about her fellow classmates, her buildup to Omoi Yo Hitotsu Ni Nare was amazing, and my favourite song from S1. Unfortunately S2 didn’t do too much justice to her, I would definitely have liked to see more YohaRiko interactions honestly, but they all have to share the spotlight so I won’t complain.

Overall, she’s just an amazing character, both in lore development and in how relatable she’s as a character, it was thanks to the 2nd year trio that Sunshine slowly got fond of them.

My favourite individual song of her is Suimian ni Piano, but one of my absolute favourites is definitely with Guilty Kiss in Shooting Star Warrior, GK is such an amazing unit and I will fight anyone that thinks otherwise.

F: 
The famous sequence and key plot point where Riko at long last visited her old school Oto High again and sat down behind Maki's piano again - however in her Ura uniform.

How symbolic. So also Riko finally able to let go of a problematic past?

This would even be intensified by Rainbow's 2nd paper plane scene: Little Riko throwing away her "travel hat". The travel and journey over at last, Riko home at last...

And once again a "knot" of references and threads:

Maki's piano famously a Yamaha model with the signature tuning fork as lid stand - reference to Evangelion's Longinus spear, that also resembles a tuning fork on purpose: Music as the most noble achievement of man, quote Kaworu Nagisa. In Haruhi, who adopted Eva's female school uniforms and invented the "SOS school club", this was turned into a viral insert song: Lost My Music... which was Riko's situation, wasn't it? Thanks to Sunshine's SOS club, the idol club aka Aq's, Riko was able to revive her music...

Said SOS club however also saved the actual main character Mari. During her arrival after 2 years she wore a travel hat as well. And these two years must've been downright horrible for her. And her stored anger would burst out in "Young Dreamer".... and is Riko's travel hat meant to hint Riko felt as lonely and miserable...? Puppy Anko triggered some dark feels inside of her, and of Yoshiko...

...Riko, Yoshiko, Mari = Guilty Kiss. GnY made them join forces onscreen and thus imo confirmed they did so offscreen in the original Sunshine already. And GnY also confirmed Riko's depressedness as kid, also hinted but not yet fully elaborated on in Sunshine and Rainbow.

And as for Maki: I'm still of the opinion Riko must have met Maki at Oto. Two girls of the "same kind" coming too close to each other and literally third-wheeling Nico:

"So I ain't good enough for ya?? I ain't talented enough for ya??"

The kinda triange to have the LL bands shook on a regular basis, gen by gen...

The obstacle and iceberg the MakiRiko ship would crash into: Muse still allowing no new members. Riko demanding a decision from Maki, who would hesitate first and eventually return to Nico in the same way Chika would later return to You-chan the night before Ura's farewell celebration. At that point Riko would accept it (at least on the outside)...

But a year earlier seeing Maki doing it would make Riko look as sad as Lanzhu when Shioriko joined the Niji idol club.

Lanzhu was about to escape virtually the same night, but the Niji girls stopped her.

Riko could not yet escape and was beginning to hide in a cocoon, similar to Kanan later. She would mess up a piano contest (what we saw onscreen) and the gossip and laughter would become so terrible her parents would decide to flee Tokyo at the end of the school year.

Maybe Minami suggested Uchiura where she would have gotten a vacant director job, had Muse not saved Oto (so Muse indirectly provided Mari this free job...). Maybe the house right next to Takamis' inn's still available, she said to the Sakurauchis...

And it was. And so Riko was literally in a position to witness Chika's terrible condition after "zero points" just in time, and also could inform the others via phone messenger (LL's quintessential tech premise, the "Mirai zura premise")...

So Riko's intervention saved Chika the decoy protagonist, lancer and magnetic hero, and thus indirectly saved Mari.

Riko helped save Mari directly by providing high end compositions, and indirectly by saving Chika - who then would save also Riko.

Because Riko = Kosei from Your Lie In April who also loses his music, and Chika = Tsubaki; who would however kick Kosei's leg at the end and remain his "guardian angel".

Riko however, hinted by her throwing away her travel hat, would overcome her situation...

One for the road: Kosei famously carries a wounded Tsubaki in a key scene. So does Mei the piano player with Shiki; both in Eva's female school uniforms again, inside an SOS club again...

Which is LL's most sophisticated way of rhyming and of tying up reference knots.

With Riko as one of the key arcs of all of LL.

(personality-database.com opinion)

A: Edit: I don't agree with this anymore however I still think she's a feeler all in all

I come here to try to formulate an alternative argument for Riko being an ISFJ. I'm actually really bad at making arguments but I'll try because people on this site are starting to confuse SiFi looping with Ti use in IXFJs. I just had to step in in making an argument to support what everyone said below. Nanda made some good points but their descriptions of Fi can be mistaken with Ti. But I acknowledge their attempt at trying to see points of her being a SiTe user. Before you try to reply this, please research about the difference of FeTi and TeFi first to get my entire point here and also study Riko's character objectively not based on the face value. I tried to collect everyone's ISFJ explanations here too.

Here are the most misconceptions that everyone on this site has made about Fe (a huge example would heavily be on Mari's page and Riko's page as well): Being good at understanding others. Yes Fe users try to understand others but they may not completely understand others. This is entirely why people dismiss a character for having Fe to them having Fi instead.
Fe isn't about not being vocal of their opinions either. Fe users may also be open about their own choices and opinions as well. Which there is no point in claiming Riko has no Fe due to her being clear of her own opinions.


when Ti is paired with Fe: Riko's decision making during the first few episodes were based off of her SiTi rather than SiFi looping. She at first had rejected the offer of joining the others because she tried to consider what is the norm and reasonable for her. In the episodes, it was pretty clear that Riko cares about how the audience conveys and absorbs the feelings of her music. When she couldn't achieve that, she entirely had stopped playing because she felt like her music would be lacking for others. I'd like to point out that Riko mostly refused to accepting Chika's offer is actually because of her Ti use in trying to point out what's REASONABLE for her or not. This is not because of her boundaries or anything like that. I won't talk about personal values here because Fi isn't entirely about that because literally everyone no matter which function has personal values.
-----------

About the looping: (I'll try to add more once people suggest more examples)
ISTJs during their SiFi loop, They feel uncertainty with things that they haven't experienced before. Which can cause them to withdraw from it. They can also second-guess themselves and worry about what's right for them to do or is it actually consistent of what they actually want to feel. Fi can be expressed pretty unhealthily during this loop at times if you think about it. Consider this as a food for thought though.

SiTi looping in particularly is a little more concerned with what makes sense to them. Usually ISFJs in this loop tend to try to seek out things that actually went wrong but it can lead to them overanalyzing things in a negative point of view. Another part of this loop is that they would also want to seek out what they **could have done better**. An example of a possible SiTi looping in Riko is her backing out from trying to keep going and instead wants to analyze that mistake and she even told Chika that. To sum it up, she feels like hearing the sound of the ocean could help her change that and views her life as static and "unchanging" when she made that mistake. She feels like she couldn't change herself and her mistakes at all.
I don't actually see as much Te and Fi in Riko as most others do?? She worries about what went wrong rather than that which is very very common for FeTi users. Ok another food for thought, her inability to feel a change in her life is based off of her mistake in worrying about how the audience receives her music. She can tell whether the audience is enjoying her music or not and when she knows that they aren't, she actually feels tensed and pressured horribly.

also huge kudos to @MischiefWalugi04 for helping out in providing a few examples for her SiTi looping

B - ISFJ: ISTJ? No way. I think she's typed how she is since she's compared to Umi so much- a shame, really. But here's my pitch: Riko's an ISFJ.

Just because Riko's more calm and composed doesn't equate to her being a Te user. She doesn't have a very strong Te function, if any at all. A good comparison in this scenario would be Dia, who uses her dom Te to look at things from a rational, logical perspective. She looks at things objectively without letting her personal feelings get in the way most of the time. Her Te is her dominant function, and it's the basis of most of her decision-making process.

However... Riko doesn't have that.
"But Riko's a Fi user because she does let her personal feelings-"
Okay, great. Hear me out.

Riko often holds herself back from making important decisions due to outside influence. She held back from playing the piano during the first season of Sunshine due to her past experience of disappointing the audience at a piano recital in the past (which goes to show her dom Si as well), and this carries on to the events of Sunshine. In addition, the piano competition later on forces Riko to decide between the piano and her friends, which Chika confronts her about in Episode 10's ending. Riko struggles with such a decision because she doesn't want to disappoint Aqours and Uranohoshi. She clearly wouldn't have any trouble deciding if her Fi was her tert function, but instead, she wavers in her decision before taking a step forward. I could go on with examples, but Riko generally tends to consider what's best for everyone and what's morally right from an objective perspective before carrying out with anything she does.