
name        : Ruby Kurosawa
kanji       : 黒澤 ルビィ
color       : #ff6fbe
mbti        : ISFJ(129), ESFJ(38)

(idol.st)
background:
Ruby is a first year student who is the younger sister of Dia Kurosawa, who she shares a strong bond with. She is from an old family involved in fishing management whose name is well-known around the area. The Kurosawa family also owns a number of companies including real estate, entertainment, human resources and restaurant management. Ruby is almost always nearby her best friend, Hanamaru Kunikida.

In the anime, in the first episode, Ruby is shown to display a big interest in school idols. Season 1 Episode 4 shows that she used to be a fan of school idols, sharing this hobby with Dia, although something caused her older sister to seemingly lose that interest, which is revealed in Season 1 Episodes 6, 8 and 9 to be Dia's failure as a school idol. Ruby's love for school idols remained intact, but the event made her secretly keep it away from her sister. She later joins Aqours in Season 1 Episode 4, after counting with her sister's support.

personality:
Ruby is very shy and timid, which makes it hard for her to get along with other people. She has a tendency to utter or scream "Pigii!!!" when she doesn't like something; in the event she screams, her face will turn red as she does so. Although she is fearful and easily upset, she does have a tough interior forged by her role as the daughter of a rich, well-known family. She meets Leah Kazuno in Tokyo, who she becomes very close with.

From a different perspective, Ruby is adaptable and mostly admired by her friends, and they support her no matter what; despite the fact the Second Years are considered "the heart" of Aqours, Ruby does not have difficulty getting along with the rest of the group unlike her fellow First Years' or the Third Years', as seen in Season 2 Episode 2.

Ruby also speaks in the third person from time to time, just like Hanamaru. However, she tends to use "watashi" as a first-person pronoun.

Due to the strong bond she shares with her sister Dia, Ruby will immediately display her tough interior and defend her sister when a negative point of her is brought up, as seen in Season 2 Episode 8. Ruby is also shown to have a playful and mischievous side of her when she teases Yoshiko Tsushima's Fallen Angel behavior and her embarrassing moments (alongside Hanamaru), which annoys Yoshiko all the time. She also despises spicy food, as seen in Season 1 Episode 10, when she eats a takoyaki filled with tabasco sauce instead of octopus sauce.

(namu.wiki)

introduction:
Um, I’ve never spoken to a man other than my dad before—

Everyone, ch-ch-ch-ch— Nice to meet you!!! Um, I, my name is Ku-Kurosawa Ruby— Ah, S-Sorry. I put too much force into it this time and bit my tongue— Ah~, what should I do, what should I do, I, I don't know what's going on anymore— Um, um, actually, I, I’ve never spoken to a man other than my dad before. So I’m always, always clumsy around men— but I still love idols so much, and I want to become an idol—. I never imagined a Ruby like this would become an idol, but I’ve decided that I absolutely won’t miss this opportunity. So, even though I’m super nervous today, I’ll close my eyes tightly and do my best! Ruby is so scared right now, but I really love you all—! Please cheer for a Ruby like this—!!!

(wikipedia)
Ruby is a first-year student at Uranohoshi Girls' Academy, as well as Dia's shy, timid younger sister, who has long since dreamed of becoming an idol. A very bubbly, sweet and kindhearted girl with reddish-pink hair, she is among the youngest members of Aqours as well as the most childlike in terms of looks and personality. Despite living in a seaside town, Ruby does not know how to swim at all and likes to avoid water. She also has androphobia (a fear of men), since she has never talked to anyone male outside of her own father. In the anime, her shyness is increased so she enters in panic when she is touched by anyone she is not used to regardless of sex, being only comfortable around Dia and Hanamaru at the start of the anime. Her catchphrase is "Ganbaruby!" (がんばルビィ), a portmanteau of her name with the Japanese verb "ganbaru" meaning to try hard or persevere; in the English dub, this is translated as "Do my Rubesty!"

(reddit opinion)

A: 
So is it me or does Ruby have perhaps one of the best character arcs throughout the entire Sunshine series? Like we go from this meek shy little girl who never goes against her sister to being an ambassador that Saint Snow respects and accepts a collaboration. Easily one of those characters you can tell the writers really tried and in alot of ways pays off so much in S2. Sure, she still does things in the name of her sister but in alot of ways, her overcoming her shyness is something to be admired.

Also Ruby has the distinct honor of having the most viewed music video on YouTube with Cotton Candy Ei Ei Oh! What a weird but amazing song and its kinda astounding that Ruby went from a character i didnt really care for to being such a stand out! Who would have thought!

B: Time for ShrimpRuby! (Iykyk)

Ruby is a really fun character, and while I initially didn’t find her too interesting, she slowly began to catch my interest, be it by the silly moments, her growth with her sister, starting from scared to goofy, and her development.

S1 focuses mostly on her backstory and relationships, from her relationship with the first years to her progression with the group and her broken bridge with her sister and how they fixed it. She didn’t have the strongest presence in S1, and the only thing I thought was fun about her was when she was running away from a girl that probably wanted to hug her before Dia barged in. Fortunately that changed in S2, giving her a much stronger presence and a deserved development arc, it was awesome to see how she used her love for her sister as a point in common with Leah to create a song together, dedicated to their siblings, Awaken the Power was a perfect way to end the arc, and honestly I loved their outfits.

GnY did a really interesting change with her, turning her into a fairy that can power up Dia’s bike certainly was surprising, but what I found most interesting was her interactions in Numazu in the mirage and reverse Numazu, she really gutted me there with just few words lol. Also love her cotton candy shield gimmick in Blaze in the Deepblue.

I will also state how well Furirin did with her, it’s awesome to see how she manages to do such high pitched sounds that doesn’t hurt the ears and has such a noticeable presence during songs. Her part in Ryouran took me by surprise, but I definitely liked her part, it’s impressive how fast she can sing with that pitch.

We surely came a long way now, having finished Nijigasaki, μ’s and now Aqours. We know you were busy recently, so I don’t expect stats here either. Looking forward to Liella next, and thanks for these discussions.

C: 
PIGYAAAAAAH! No but seriously, how does Furirin do that voice. Ruby time!

Kurosawa Ruby is known for a few things, her love of sweets, her cute/shyness, and her incredibly high pitched voice. Also her love for her big sister. It’s sometimes a bit easy to only see her for these sorts of things. Granted, the Anime really focuses a lot on this, and Ruby often ends up being the punchline for a lot of quick gags, but I really feel like she does a lot more than that for Sunshine.

To be honest, there’s not much about Ruby we don’t get to see in season 1 of Sunshine. We learn about her friendships, her passions, and her dynamic within the group. We also get to see her relationship with Dia and their history. But in terms of character development, it feels like Ruby takes a bit of a backseat to some of the other girls.

It’s not really until about midway through season 2, and perhaps the movie as well, that Ruby gets a chance to grow. It’s a wonderfully executed character arc, with her learning to take initiative and do things on her own (at least without Dia). But importantly, her time in Hokkaido with Leah to me really shows her deep empathy. She understood Leah and her relationship with Sarah better than the rest of the group, and took it upon herself to help.

Ultimately, Awaken the Power is a fantastic conclusion to this arc, showing how she doesn’t have to cut off her sister to do something without her, and she helps Leah open up to her sister as well. During the following events in Over the Rainbow, Ruby is really faced with the prospect of having to perform in Aqours without her sister, and truly moving on from the third years seems to hit her the hardest. She is able to overcome this though, by the end of the movie.

Ruby’s relationships with the rest of the cast can mostly be extrapolated from what we see. She’s dear friends with Hanamaru and Yoshiko, even if the latter sometimes scares her. She probably gets along really well with Riko, seeming as they are both more introverted characters. You probably often tries get to her to do new things, much to her disapproval. Chika, Mari and Kanan all have some sort of older sister vibes, but in a different way than Dia. Of course, Ruby really looks up to her big sister, and is always supportive and proud of her, maybe to a fault.

Furirin (Furihata Ai), Ruby’s Seiyuu, has to take up Kotori’s mantle of having a super high pitched voice. And she does it spectacularly. I don’t really find her normal speaking voice grating at all, which is always refreshing. And while she may never be a sexy home tutor (look it up) she’s become one of the most prominent members of the group in recent years. Her dedication and passion cannot be overstated.

I know that the English localization team tried to find something to fit “Ganbaruby” but I never liked “Rubesty”. I still love the original.

In GNY they turned her into a fairy… that can power a bike… I don’t really get the second part there, but they didn’t really change her character, which is funny. Dia is also a fairy, but just mastered her Human transformation, which Ruby still struggles a bit with, but it’s nice to see her in human form for the girls’ night.

TLDR: 131/10 for my birth month gemstone. Furirin is wonderful. RubyMaru SSS-tier ship, RubyLeah S-tier ship.

This marks the end of the Aqours girls. I remember when I first was getting into Love Live, I thought that there was no way that anything could top Mu’s, but they completely floored me. I don’t know if/when we’ll ever do this again, but I am always willing to find more stuff to gush about when it comes to these characters. With their IRL stories ending soon, I really feel myself embracing a lot of the themes and messages that Sunshine had towards the end.

Thank you for this Wonderful Story. Onwards to the Next Sparkling!

Next week starts Superstar and Liella! Looking forward to it!

D:My opinions on Ruby flip-flop a lot. On one hand, I'm not crazy on her design and initial personality. I generally don't like painfully anxious characters, her cutesy childish look/mannerisms always felt a little creepy to me, as did her relationship with Dia (but this could be a cultural difference in sibling interactivity). I get why people would like her (and I don't think it's creepy to like her), but she wasn't for me from the start.

But Ruby had some really good character development in S2, taking leaps and strides in her independence by pairing up with Leah and demonstrating their abilities to both their siblings. I've always founnd that a really funny combo lol, it's like Leah's an "evil" Ruby and they don't hide the fact she's very much her inversion. It was great growth for the two of them, and without it I'd probably just have skipped leaving a comment this time. Sometimes I think about doing a Character Discussion just for Saint Snow lol, they're really interesting characters and people really like them.

Also: Cotton Candy Ei Ei Oh. What the hell was that? lol. I miss the time those MVs were coming out, I'd love to see them done again for other solos in the franchise. It was great to see so many people talking about Ruby from it, and it highlighted a bit of a silly side to her that I'd have loved to see more in the anime.

E: The Aqours Yukiho clone! My favorite girl of the series! Not just "Sunshine". All of "Love Live"!

You figure that because my favorite "Imas" character is Azusa, Karin would be my favorite character of "Love Live". No, Yukiho--I mean Ruby is my favorite "Love Live" character. Really!

If you don't know me, I really was ready to forget about "Love Live" not because it's bad, but because I can only fit in so much information into my head (like the name of Devin Booker's dad). After I learned that an old school artist I remember drew the μ's girls, Nanase Aoi-sensei, I wanted to know who the Yukiho clone is, Hanayo, because it wouldn't be fair if I treated the series like "Imas". That trend carried over to this group, as I like Ruby.

Ruby is that cute. "Ganbarubii" is probably the cutest catch phrase/quirk I have encountered. Unlike Niko, Ruby the twin tails member of Aqours is my top member of the group. She's the one girl a guy can take home to mother without a hitch. Sure, she's shy, but her politeness is along with her overall base why she's my favorite character of the series.

The one part I don't like about Ruby is actually a funny trait. She messes up my favorites lists. What I mean is that I probably now these days have the most merchandise of Ruby, and yet, because of this trait, she makes me think too hard on making them. Shinobu of "Love Hina" is supposed to be my favorite anime character, especially since she's the only Japan origin series girl to make my top 10 favorite animation characters, and yet, going by merchandise, it's Ruby, but "Love Hina" came out in Japan when I was in high school, meaning no money. My favorite fictional girl is April overall, a girl from an import game series if we go by Japan only, and yet once more, I have more Ruby merchandise than them two.

Birthday fact. She has the same birthday as the late Abe Shinzou-kakka. Oh, and some baseball player named Cecil Fielder along with other people.

F: Ruby's astonishing growth. From fragile and under Dia's wings to announcing "Next Sparkling" as Aq's new leader presumably. How come? Again we need a "little" preparation:

The Kurosawas once shy and timid, no self confidence or speaking out for themselves (paralleling among others Maki in SIP S2 when a new song was demanded for each new LL round and µ's silently expected Maki to compose it all. Maki's face turning sour, but she wouldn't protest yet. Presumably this would change from her 2nd year on when µ's, despite their disbandment, still would perform at Tokyo Dome to keep the LL there...)

Let's look at Dia first:

A lot's already hinted in the famous E09 climax, one of the best-written "plot knots" ever imo...

What we see there: Dia timid as a little kid, Kanan the one dragging her into "undiscovered countries" (quote Umi to Honk during their reconciliation; Kanan would also be Chika's "surrogate Onee-chan" as we saw), before both would bump into Mari at elementary school.

A Mari whose facial expression hinted that she maybe had already given up - when Kanan's smile revived Mari's hope (so Kanan at that point a lancer, magnetic hero and manic pixie dream girl).

Kanan's fuel: µ's. She wanna follow into their footsteps by founding an idol group. Dia's fire of excitement had already begun to burn; only Mari still needed a final trigger, provided by Kanan via a "haggu from behind" (a la HonoRin).

Mari would soon allow it - because she began to see in the new idol band a straw to grasp at, in order to flee a terrible fate.

The name they would agree on: Aqours - a symbiosis of Italian "acqua" = "water", and English "ours". Maybe inspired by Uchiura's seaside (often orange during sunsrise and sunset, which makes it an Evangelion reference; already done by SIP inside the Tokyo-Yokohama Bay, I think, later visited by the bigger Aq's too); but probably also based on Mari's Italian-American origins.

(And once again so many arc threads tied up in the plot knots. Something I totally wasn't expecting when I started watching Love Live. Also because Slice of Life and Shojo still don't rly have this kinda reputation).

So Mari brought a lot from herself into the new idol band, because it was her last hope.

But in their 1st year it was too much for KananDia, they couldn't help Mari. (Again the arc thread hinted by Yoshiko exclusively in the US dub of E09: Kanan threw up and felt bad at the Tokyo Event. As if the Oharas threatened KananDia...)

No wonder Kanan began escaping into a dismissive abrasive cocoon. Her "pixie dreamgirl" qualities de-evolving.

In contrast to Dia: From shy to exroverted in her 1st year to a fierce chessmaster in her 3rd year. Dia evolving into Sunrise's "female Lelouch".

And in E09 one of her risky moves: Had she told Mari that Kanan threw up and felt bad, Mari had begged for forgiveness - triggering only yet another "PISS OFF!!" from Kanan. So Dia pretended Kanan had virtually sided with Mari's parents.

A clash now unavoidable. Would KananMari reconcile once? They often fought in the past and once again in the classroom, triggering Dia's "Ruby self" from the past. Fortunately Chika herself had already matured enough (by making it through "Isn't it frustrating?") and Dia had recruited her at the very beginning (after receiving the letter that told her Mari would return and Riko would transfer), so Chika was there and intervened in a typical "lancer" manner ("kicking the door open").

Now KananMari would have to stop fighting and to reconcile without Chika. Kanan remembering a past haggu (a "good flashback") saved the day - and on the long run Mari...

"Mijuku Dreamer" as breather after this stressful ep - we thought lol. Because at the very end Dia would reveal she had tricked the 2nd years into adopting "Aqours" as band name before.

Which also means: Chika thought she outsmarted Dia by making her join Aq's right before Mijuku Dreamer - before finding out, after the ep, that it's the other way around...

Now - what does all of this have to do with Ruby?

Well - Dia would immediately pass on the new spirit to Ruby. Most symbolically Ruby with cardboard wings, foreshadowing "Next Sparkling".

The first domino piece (cardboard wings) foreshadowing the final one (Next Sparkling's "One Winged Angels", but only the "youngsters". Dia as 3rd year would wear the "double wing" that once Ruby wore in cardboard form...)

And Dia for real had Ruby "under her wings"... possible thanks to the new spirit that Kanan once brought them...

So Ruby too now with the seeds for some growth. They would start flowering when Ruby dragged Leah out of her abyss.

This saved Saint Snow and led to Saint Aq's Snow ("Awaken the Power" as self-explanatory title).

...and Saint Snow would then visit Aq's on New Year and provide them a critically important workout schedule. Without it they probably wouldn't have won the Love Live...

So Ruby indirectly saved Aq's and thus on the long run Mari. She didn't think of all that when she saw a Leah in misery. She just via impulse did the right thing.

= Lancer x Magnetic Hero x Manic Pixie Dream Girl...

Ruby would then help all of Aq's in Italy, making "Hot Stop Nonstop" possible.

And eventually she would announce "Next Sparkling" to Tsuki's school, their new home. (YohaYou were holding hands after the second paper plane scene, so both YohaRiri and ChikaYou must have broken up for good. RubyMaru as the only ones "triangle-free". And the 3rd years graduating. So only RubyMaru could now take over Aq's. Maru's development meanwhile's hinted in "Mitaiken Horizon".)

All thanks to µ's, Kanan, Aq's and Dia - who in return made it this far also thanks to Ruby and thanks to taking care of her.

Because that's again the "double wing" symbol:

When Dia was little, Ruby wore the double wings as cardboard. When Dia was graduating - she wore them as real costume, while Ruby had already "grown" one of the new wings...

("Cast in one piece", "story clockwork", "fabric of story threads" - I could come up with many phrasings. A new one: "Prism gem stone" - many surfaces to look through, many kaleidoscope-like perspectives. But all inside the same gem stone. The different surfaces are the different story threads. This one here was Ruby's, that however intersects and overlaps intensely with the others. Like inside a prism and kaleidoscope. And that's Love Live Sunshine.)


(personality-database.com opinion)

A: Contains spoilers from the anime !!!

Ruby is a sx9 ! She finds very hard to take decisions on her own so she always followed her sister by "merging" with her agenda and interests. Her whole arc was about to express what she wanted and not clinging on Dia's desires.

Hanamaru was the one that helped her to act more on her own in season 1. She knew what was her dream (of becoming a school idol), so she was trying to make her pursue her goal, instead of trying to please Dia.

On the other hand, in season 2, we see how she struggled to be on her own and standing for what she believed when she needed to go with Leah for both being able to do their show for their sisters. She often looked up for her sister in order for her to take decisions for both.


"Sexual Nines unconsciously express a need to be through another- to gain a sense of "being" they don't find inside themselves through fusion with somebody else. They unconsciously use relationships to feed their sense of being because it can feel too challenging or threatening to be on their own; they substitute another person's agenda for their own because it feels more comfortable to stand or be through another. These Nines may not even realize they have made this substitution, however; it often happens at a subconscious level.

Sexual Nines are not connected to their own passion for living (in the good sense of the term "passion"), and so they try to locate it by blending with another person. When they are in close relationships, they may have the sense that there are no boundaries between their experience and that of important others. The merging with the other takes the form of an energetic taking on of feelings, attitudes, beliefs, and even behavior. These Nines feel a sense of loneliness or abandonment that seems like it can only be filled by another person, whether or not they realize it consciously"


Comparing her to Hanamaru who is a textbook sp9, I don't think it fits her of being a sp9 as well. She was so merged with Dia that she almost forgot what was her dream, and even if she truly loved school idols, she was willing to give up on liking them in order of her sister.
I don't ever recall her merging with physical pleasures.

I'm not entirely sure of her being sx/sp or sx/so since I could definitely see her merging more with group interest than physical pleasures, but I'm voting for now as sx/sp since it's the one that has more votes !

Lately I've been also considering the possibility of her being ESFJ instead of ISFJ ? What do you think ? ^^
Let me know if you disagree with anything !!! ♡

B: Ruby is all about pleasing others, especially Dia, no matter what that means for herself. Rather than remaining true to her want to be an idol, she listened to her sister until those that she was confident with gave her the push she needed to do something for herself once. I'm not saying that Fi users are not compassionate and self-sacrificing, but Ruby denied who she was to make her sister happy. She's also a peacekeeper and often mediates conflicts between the girls. I believe she has strong Fe which prevents her from putting herself first when she needs to. ISFPs would probably be afraid of being an idol because they are putting themselves out there and not because of the standards that are expected of them. I strongly believe in ISFJ for Ruby.

C - ESFJ: Ruby is really shy and introverted but i feel like she use far more Fe than Si. She just want to be there for other. When the first Aqours disbanded, Ruby hid the fact that she still likes School idols to Keep idols away from her sister. During her episode (Awaken the power) Ruby makes a song for her sister and by doing so she also help Aqours to unite with st snow, at the end of the episode she help leah to make new friends. Ruby is also super encouraging (with her gambaruby for exemple).
I think she is a really introverted ESFJ