
name        : Yoshiko Tsushima
kanji       : 津島 善子
color       : #c1cad4
mbti        : ENTP(217), ENFP(70)

(idol.st)
background:
Yoshiko is a first year student who was born in the urban side of the city of Numazu. She attended the same kindergarten as her friend Hanamaru Kunikida, who she calls "Zuramaru" (ずら丸). Her mother is a teacher at a school.

Yoshiko likes the "little devil" look and proclaims herself to be "Yohane, the Fallen Angel" (堕だ天てん使しヨハネ Datenshi Yohane), an angel who has angered God and was cast away from the heavens to Earth for going way too far being like God, developing a human body which is merely a vessel to which her soul is bound to. She has developed this persona ever since she was in kindergarten, and fully embraced it during middle school. Because of this, it is implied she didn't have many friends during that time.

Yoshiko meets up with her old kindergarten friend Hanamaru, as well as Chika Takami, You Watanabe and Ruby Kurosawa in the first episode, though she acts like "Yohane" during that time until Hanamaru drives her to act normally. In the following episode, she attends class but immediately escapes after acting like "Yohane" once again. Finally on Episode 5, she is found by Hanamaru to be hiding on school, and is invited by Chika to form part of Aqours. After the group tries to adopt her "fallen angel" style, however, she leaves the group for causing them trouble with the student council president. She officially joins the group the same episode after they assure her they were okay with her "fallen angel" persona.

personality:
Yoshiko seems to be a chuunibyou, a person who holds delusions of grandeur. Bright, self-assured, smart, and thoughtful, Yoshiko has a persona who she describes as "Yohane", a "fallen angel" who has angered God and was cast from the heavens to Earth. Apparently, a side effect to being a "fallen angel" is that she is cursed with extremely bad luck, running into all kinds of unforeseen trouble wherever she goes: raining whenever she goes on trips, falling whenever it snows, not winning anything from lucky draws in convenience stores, falling sick right before exams, and so on. Because of this, she often blames herself for Aqours' misfortunes. Through her delusional persona, Yoshiko acts dramatic, cunning, and a little bit devious, and often goes as far as using dark, devilish accessories or clothing to further accentuate her "fallen angel" look as "Yohane". When acting like her, Yoshiko's voice is significantly lower-pitched.

Yoshiko has embraced this side of herself so much, she hates to be called by her real name and demands to be referred to as "Yohane" instead, going as far as to cross out her real name in her introduction and replace it as such as well as claiming herself to be the goddaughter of "Satan" Lucifer. As a result of embracing her "Yohane" side, it is hard for Yoshiko to act like a normal person (something she herself is aware of). This causes her difficulty to get along properly with her classmates and, at times, the rest of Aqours. She is often teased by her friends Ruby and Hanamaru for acting like "Yohane", which is annoying for her. Such moments can cause her voice to reveal her actual, high-pitched, voice.

In spite of all this, Yoshiko is a genuinely kind and decent girl, and isn't ill-willed by nature; she does treasure her friendship with the rest of Aqours for accepting her "Yohane" side; this is most evident with Ruby and Hanamaru, as shown in Season 1 Episode 13. Additionally, she affectionately refers to her friends as "little demons" (リトルデーモン Ritoru dēmon), particularly Riko Sakurauchi, whom she refers to as "Little Demon Lili/Riri. Her kindness is also shown when she rescues a dog along with Riko, and helps her friend overcoming her fear of dogs. Despite her "Yohane" side, Yoshiko is also able to pull off a normal conversation when it's really needed, most notably in Season 2 Episode 9.

Due to the fact the second-years are considered "the heart" of Aqours, Yoshiko has some difficulty relating to the third-years, which is shared with Hanamaru; this is due to her preference for the indoors and for calmer activities. Season 2 Episode 2 explores this, and after a rainy evening forces the girls to stay indoors, the first and third years are able to relate to the others (Yoshiko seemingly relating to Mari Ohara the most).

Yoshiko likes extremely spicy food, as shown in Season 1 Episode 10, where she ate takoyaki filled with Tabasco sauce. She also dislikes coffee.

(namu.wiki)

introduction:
Call me Fallen Angel Yohane♡ I’ll drag you into the hell of love♪

Just by looking into these black eyes of Yohane─ you will surely fall in love♪ Tsushima, the Fallen Angel Idol who will drag you into an eternally burning hell of loveYoshikoIt's Yohane.[21] Hey, do you know? Yohane is actually—a devil♡ But, whenever she goes on a picnic, it always rains, whenever snow piles up, she always slips and falls, she has never won a prize in a convenience store draw, and she catches the flu right before the final exams—being this unlucky isn't a normal thing♪ She must be a sinful fallen angel who incurred God's wrath because she is too cute♡ How about it? Won't you fall with Yohane too? It will definitely be really fun♪

(wikipedia)
Yoshiko is a first-year who tries to hide her chūnibyō persona and attend high school like a normal student. She claims that she became a fallen angel for angering God, and refers to herself as "Yohane" (ヨハネ), wanting everyone to call her that (though nobody actually does). She became a chūnibyō because she felt like she was too ordinary. After the other members of Aqours assure her that they accept her chūnibyō persona, she joins the group.

(reddit opinion)

A: 
Yo-Ha-Ne!

I can somewhat see why people don’t always like Yoshiko, in the same way that people find Nico’s shenanigans in SIP very annoying. I don’t mind it very much, but it’s very central to her character.

Tsushima Yoshiko is a phenomenal way to handle the Chuunibyou archetype in a show like Love Live. Primarily because there is a real character under all of the stuff she does, and she ends up letting it show rather often around the rest of the Aqours girls.

What’s also great about it is that all of the other 8 girls have their own unique ways of responding to it based on what kind of character they are. For example, Mari plays along because she finds it funny, while Hanamaru sees right through whatever Yoshiko is trying to do.

Yoshiko’s story in Sunshine is very much about self-acceptance and finding people to support you. Even after joining Aqours, Yoshiko still struggles flipping into Yohane. But after spending enough time around the rest of Aqours, who accept her for as she is, I think she eventually stops seeing it as “she needs to be one character at a specific time” and more “she can be whoever she wants to”.

It’s also very nice to see over the course of the show how she becomes very emotionally close to the rest of the girls. At the start she acted very aloof, but it’s clear by the end that she deeply cares for everyone, and is very distraught with the third-years graduating.

Yoshiko often acts as some form of comedic character within Aqours, so it’s nice to see her more quiet and introspective moments. Her episode with Riko in season 2 did a lot to show how she feels in those sorts of situations.

Something I also really enjoy about Yoshiko is that she really leaned into her identity as Yohane. Her streaming setup, her magical props, even changing how she talks. It shows that she really embraces that as part of her identity, which isn’t something most Chuunibyou characters do.

Yohane’s most important relationships are mostly shown to the audience, being with Chika, Riko, and the other first-years. Although to be honest, I’m kind of surprised how popular YohaRiko is as a ship. They had an episode together, but maybe the CD dramas give a bit more insight into that.

I don’t know if we’ll have a separate character discussion for the GNY stuff, so I’ll talk a bit about it here. From a meta perspective, it was really cool to have Yohane be the center of the show, considering she didn’t really have any center songs in the anime. She’s definitely a bit of a different character, and while GNY had its own issues, Yohane’s journey of finding self-validation and something which she truly enjoys doing is really sweet.

Can I also just tell for a moment about Aikyan’s voice? Some people have already made good videos talking about this, but this girl can sing. Most LL songs don’t ask for much in the deeper registers, but Aikyan absolutely delivers. Guilty Kiss has some phenomenal music that really lets her show her stuff.

TLDR: 124/10 for the fallen angel. I think if I could get a black feather that looks as cool as hers, I would. Aikyan does a stellar job with her voice and singing. YohaRiko SS-tier Ship. YohaMaru S-Tier Ship.

B: She is simply amazing in both of her personas(and the third Yohane show Yohane persona who kind lf blends the two) also is an amazing combination of cute and cool in one character. Also amazing songs and Aikyan did an amazing job voicing her. And guilty kiss(mostly thanks to Yohane) gave the staff a lot of room to experiment with songs that are not as "idol like"

You can also see how they really did take a lot of inspiration from her in subsequent gens with Setsuna and Sumire.

C: 
Definitely my favorite girl out of all of Love Live, even though I can understand those who don't like her at all. She can be annoying at times and like others have said, even as a diehard Yoshiko fan, I also cringe at her Fallen Angel antics now and then. On the other side I find it kind of cute.

What I really like about her, though, is... basically everything. Her bun looks cute and gives her silhouette a nice, recognizable shape and her weird poses are quite interesting at times. (and did you know that she is the only character whose nose is always drawn with a whole line in the anime? Other's are only drawn with partial lines and/or dots.) Her singing voice is, thanks to the wonderful Aikyan, easily my all-time favorite and also the reason I bought my first CD back then, which eventually lead to me entering the hellzone of getting more CDs and other stuff (curse you!).

Something I always found kinda funny is that, allegedly, Yoshiko likes to play video games, though I think that this hasn't been touched on in the anime at all. I wonder what could have been done with that. (Though there are definitely other, bigger "problems" with Sunshine's story than this)

With her being the poster girl of the GAMERS store in Numazu, her being in another subunit apart from Guilty Kiss (namely, YYY), and having a whole-ass spin-off anime with herself as the main character, there's really enough for people like me to enjoy her presence and, most importantly, her singing. I still get goosebumps at times when I hear her sing, though this is also partly because I really like Aqours in general and some songs (quite a few of them happen to be Yoshiko centers / solos) I am just in love with.

This also captures my general opinion of her well. She's just a character that I really, really love. Which is kind of funny, because when I first watched Sunshine, I did not pay attention to her, like at all. It was only when watching Sunshine for the second time and starting to listen to their songs that I grew very fond of her.

All in all, great character, awesome voice (actress), possibly overrated/underrated (depending on who you're talking to) and my comfort character of choice. 10/10.

And it's Yohane!

D:The Datenshi has arrived.

I honestly have never been interested in chuunibyous archetypes of characters, and initially Yoshiko was no exception to that, it really felt like she chose really bad moments to pull off her character traits, but even so, part of me was also intrigued about her, if not also amused. To say it in another way, I would state that she was a bit annoying, but you would never be bored around her. I think that is what made me gave her chances instead of just brushing her off as my least favourite character of Aqours.

Her double personality play was definitely like a double edged sword for her, she tries to play cool when she introduced her to the class to suddenly not come back and be hidden in a drawer, and somehow Hanamaru knew she was there. And she might have cat reflexes and really strong knees, because climbing the same tree twice to fall on your feet in the same way must have not been a pleasant experience from her perspective. She didn’t want to give up on her Yohane self, but also didn’t know to fit in with the others with her Yoshiko self. Her episode in S1 was for me a crucial moment in her journey to accept herself. Her shenanigans didn’t slow down after that, and in this case I must admit I enjoyed them. Her Phoenix Hold was weird but effective, capturing both Kurosawa sisters in their attempt to escape, and while it might seem horrendous, the takoyaki she prepared were actually edible (poor Ruby though, that much spicy might not have been a great experience for her). She goofed around with both of her identities, and the group accepted her for how she was. Season 2 also had some funny moments, from the YohaRiko bond over a lost dog, the division between the first and third years in terms of music (and activities) tastes and her attempt at fortune telling in the school event, she definitely has been gradually growing on me once I decided to give Aqours another chance and started liking them.

One interesting concept Sunshine did in my opinion is to link every character except Riko in one way or another, which it’s not surprising considering they are in a small town, but I honestly felt that was underdeveloped, there is usually not much details aside if they met when they were little (in most cases) and leave us from there. Sure, Hanamaru made the link between the first years since she met both of them, but iirc we don’t get to see how Ruby and Yoshiko got along. I loved the YohaRiko episode, it showed another side of Yohane giving a really good perspective, she’s not just the comedic character, she’s also an introverted and caring person. It’s a pity how ghat episode ended though, and how their relationship went from friends who understood each other to friends who roast each other. It was still entertaining, but I honestly wish it ended differently.

But in all honesty, GNY was what completely changed my perspective on her, from 8th-9th to my 3rd favourite of Aqours, and made me appreciate how powerful Aikyan’s deep voice is, she definitely delivered with GNY and while the series was apparently not well received, I loved the characters and the music. It made an interesting point of another journey to find herself but instead of accepting herself, it was about finding something she truly enjoyed doing. Please give us Season 2!

I’m also sorry for her for how many walls she was splatted into in my attempts to cheese Blaze in the Deepblue through all those thin openings, You’s cannon was too fun to pass.

My favourite song of her is Far Far Away, but Forever U&I is really close, Aikyan really didn’t hold back. Really love how they implemented YohaRiko rap in Shooting Star Warrior as well, is my favourite Aqours subunit song and one of my top 5 LL songs, Guilty Kiss never fails to deliver. And her part in the Ryouran collab is definitely the one that impacted me the most, I was really excited to hear Shuka, Sayurin and Nonsuke sing, but when Aikyan started my jaw dropped.

Sorry for the wall of text.

E: 
Oh Yohane. Here’s the thing, I liked her a lot in S1. I really did. I enjoyed the way they handled her quirks, both encouraging her to be herself whole acknowledging that sometimes she can go overboard. There’s a time and a place. She was self aware and goofy, and to me that made her engaging. She could switch very easily between self-centered and empathetic. I defended her a lot to people who thought she was annoying. I thought she was a really nuanced version of the archetype!

My biggest problem with her is that she falls into the relatability trap during S2. Some writing advice I’ve often heard is “relatable is the enemy of good”. If you focus too much on making a character relatable, you lose out on room for character flaws and growth. As she got more popular, and because she got popular for bing “just like me” the writers threw away the dichotomy of the character. Yohane is no longer allowed to grow for fear of making the audience uncomfortable by confronting that they might have to as well. As a result her character relationships suffer too, because now those all revolve others reacting to her. That usually takes the form of teasing, which is almost never funny. The narrative no longer buys that her behavior could ever be inappropriate, but because they’ve already established the “comedy” pattern it now just feels like bullying. There’s no spectrum to her behavior, nor how anyone feels about it. It does a massive disservice to everyone involved. And it keeps happening, because hey, everyone wants to see more Yohane being silly, right? It’s an endless loop of Yohane being “relatable” while everyone else shakes their head. It’s very one note.

The dog episode is her only “character development” moment in S2 - and I have that in quotes for a reason, because it’s the greatest example of how her writing has changed. Yohane does not learn in it. She starts out selfish, bullying Riko into taking the dog. Not out of concern for Riko’s phobia of dogs, but because it’s convenient for her own needs. It’s not just forcing the dog on her either - she actively makes it chase Riko around until Riko agrees. When Riko begins to care for the dog, Yohane goes to take it back. It’s cruel. When the owner is found, Yohane wants to steal it. Is Yohane allowed to reflect and grow, to admit she’s wrong? Or even apologize to Riko for how she treated her? No. The narrative absolves her by repeating her story of being friendless - which we know is no longer true! She’s honestly a huge jerk in this episode, offers no real reflection, and it’s so unlike the Yohane from S1 that it makes me sad. If she had just apologized, or spent any time at all helping Riko I would think differently. But she doesn’t. She acts the same for the rest of the show, decidedly self-centered. 

By the end of the movie I didn’t enjoy seeing her on my screen, and frankly it barely felt like the other characters enjoy having her around. They feel more like her babysitter than her friends. It sucks! It sucks because I liked her. I still like her. It’s just that it’s harder to find the version I like. I know this is a harsh critique, but it’s because I’m mad. I wanted more from her. 

That said, I think glimpses of that do still show through. She was great in the Hakodate arc, maybe because that revolved primarily around Ruby. Her relationship with Ruby is less set into the patterns Hanamaru and Riko are, with Yohane still getting to showcase her care for her friends and self-awareness. I just wish we got more of that Yohane!

F:  think Yohane is the most unfairly treated character I also just can't stand. Her fallen angel shtick is incredibly grating, I think even Yohane fans will admit that to an extent lol. Certainly the show does, with how much the characters lambast her and call her Yoshiko despite her protests. But I don't think that in-universe treatment is at all fair. Yohane joined Aqours on the basis of all the other members accepting her for who she is, and then they criticize her every time she acts herself? It made her S1 story a whole pile of nothing.

And the worst thing is, it happens again in S2. She briefly finds somewhat of a friend in Riko, or at least someone who finally understands her and accepts her mentality. Her bad luck didn't come out of nowhere, it was demonstrated throughout the whole show, and Riko being the empathetic character she is was a perfect starting point for Yohane's growth. I know the episode is contentious: Yohane thrusts Riko into a place she's uncomfortable with, and she does pretty much plan to steal a dog at one point. But Riko needed to get over her fear one way or the other, and I don't think Yohane would have ever followed through with the dog theft-- it struck me more as a desperate flash of anger that would have worn off by the time of the heist. I enjoyed that episode as a Riko #1, and despite Yohane firmly being my #9 I was wavering on her by the end.

What I didn't enjoy was how Riko completely 180'd the very next episode. It was quite literally as if the whole interaction didn't happen, she was back to calling her Yoshiko like all the others. They handwaved it with Riko mimicking Yohane and getting angry about it, but Riko had never done anything like that before? It all felt like a mess, just to keep Yohane the butt of every Aqours joke.

She's childhood friends with Hanamaru too, but I also felt that was a stretch. Her constant teasing of Yohane felt very out of character, same as it did with Riko. I see fans pair her with You sometimes, which I completely don't understand, because what on earth do they have to bond over? Maybe Mari would like her energy, but that's never shown. I never felt Yohane fit in with the group, which sucked, because that was the whole reason of her joining. I still wouldn't have liked her if she did fit in, but the fact she didn't just kinda makes things worse.

One last thing: Yohane is brilliantly voiced in the English dub. Huge props to Morgan Berry, they killed it.

G: "Yohane in Tokyo" is a most significant scene - also for Studio Sunrise. Because by giving Yoshiko a "goth clown look" the writers refered to an earlier milestone of Sunrise's:

Cowboy Bebop in the late 90s and "Mad Pierot" there, imo at the very least in the top 20 of most unsettling anime arcs, and as influential.

Sunrise for decades's been well-reknown and -renowned for their magic-futuristic works. Gundam and Ideon (with Cosmo Yuki the "orange haired leader" and Kasha Imhof the "impulsive blonde" who resembles Eli a lot) were role models to Hideaki Anno and his Evangelion. "The Vision of Escaflowne" is about the highschool girl Hitomi who uses Tarot cards and gets "pulled into the sky"... Code Geass, like Cowboy Bebop, takes place in a rather dystopian future, with Lelouch the embodiment of the Chessmaster trope, with Dia soon following into his footsteps. Tiger and Bunny's about superheroes having to fight for "big money". (In the "100 years of anime" voting of 2017 T&B won gold, however this may have to do with the "recency bias". PMMM and LL, both starting in the 2010s, occupied most of the top 10 too after all).

LL meanwhile has two key trademarks: No scifi and no magic ...that are getting heavily subverted: Modern tech's already scifi-like, and "magic moments" do break through as well...

Yoshiko makes a heavy use of modern tech by streaming late-night almost daily. She's doging school at the same time.

Her true emotional world inside breaks through when she bumps into Anko, a dog forgotten at a public fuse box or whatever it was...

And it's another one of those cases of perfect writing: It starts raining, Yoshiko not getting into one of the cars tho and starting her "shenanigans" again, which makes the others leave without her, Yoshiko then losing her umbrella due to the wind blowing (refering to Chika being led by the wind to µ's at the Sakura Sweets Fair at the very beginning); and the wind then "showing" her the way to Anko at that public fuse box...

And Anko then would begin to crack Yoshiko's emotional shell. She however can't take him into her apartment because inside that building pets aren't allowed...

Riko meanwhile's asked by her mom to bring Yoshiko's mom her phone that she forgot at Sakurauchis. (Also the moms quickly in a close contact, after the Sakurauchis moved there only recently). So Riko goes there and encounters Yoshiko and Anko...

(The "clockwork of events" perfectly arranged in this quite complex episode even by Love Live (Sunshine) standards, making me need to look up many things to refresh my memories.)

Riko, despite her fear of dogs, takes in the dog (hence this ep's title). Taking care of the little pup soon outperforms the fear of dogs...

Yoshiko of course wants to take in Anko too, despite the rules in her condo. Turns out: Each of them already gave Anko a name:

Riko called him "Nocturne" (as in "Notturno", a classical music piece type), Yoshiko called him "Lailaps", the brightest star in the northern nocturnal sky. Which even spawned a meme, from the "unfunny" category. And it would soon even spawn a spinoff that would bring back the magic as we know...

So both of them projected their inner longings from past experiences onto Anko (from "introjection" to "projection").

But Anko has already gotten reported missing, also via flyers (foreshadowing to Rainbow where the third years would end up on flyers, and part of the "foreshadowing chain" begun by Chika's "strawberry flyer" that led her to µ's on UTX's big screen at the Sakura Sweets Fair).

Riko's mom found such a flyer (whereas Yoshiko's parents don't seem to take note or care); so YohaRiRi now have no choice but to bring Anko back...

And Yoshiko would not manage to close her protection shell any more. Also Riko would struggle for some time; but eventually she would manage to transform this challenging situation into overcoming her fear of dogs - and to cuddle Shiitake at long last.

Before that she and Yoshiko would try to see Anko one last time. It works, but it hurts Yoshiko even more. She begins telling Riko about her bad fate during her early childhood and how she started to think that "magic forces" must've manipulated the events around her ("magical thinking").

Would they for once grant her "good coincidences"? Was meeting Anko such a good coincidence at long last? (Again: The wind blowing refers to Chika finding µ's after all...)

But once again her hopes now in shambles? When Chika manages to perform her "miracle jump" on the beach, we would see that Yoshiko has not yet recovered...

Two more key aspects connected with this sub-arc:

Riko decides to stay by Yoshiko's side after they saw Anko one last time. She was already about to catch the next bus, after her mom had asked her when she would return home. For Yoshiko no such messages from her parents who rly don't seem to take note of too much

Riko would pass on this torch however in a toxic way: In Hakodate she would order Yoshiko to return to the hotel with a quite revealing LINE-animoji; and "Silent Cherry Blossom Nightmare". And so, eventually, YohaYou would be the ones holding hands after the second paper plane scene in Rainbow (so also the ChikaYou ship must've sunken for good). And afaics only now Yoshiko has the chance for a true new start at Tsuki's school...

In the meantime Yoshiko would play a critical role also in the third years's arc, granted by the writers and as it seems by the US localizers (maybe a "backstage arrangement"?):

Exclusively in the US-dub in E09 Yoshiko gives away that Kanan at the Tokyo Event in their first year threw up and felt bad...

So Mari's parents threatened KananDia and this was the true reason they quit being idols back then? Yoshiko's US-only statement changes everything, also for her and Kanan's "offscreen arc":

After Mari's departure Kanan would dive deeper and deeper into her self-protection-shell. She would start working out early in the morning in the woods, while dodging school as well. Yoshiko meanwhile was often still up for roaming the same woods in order to cool down from her latest stream.

So they often met, and opened their shells a little bit. For Kanan this meant telling a little bit about her past misfortune...

And this passage in the script connects with the third years arc like gears inside a clockwork:

Had Dia told Mari that Kanan vomitted back then, Mari would've begged for forgiveness, which would have triggered only yet another "Piss off!!" from Kanan (who too tried her hardest to not allow her shell to get a crack). So Dia pretended that Kanan virtually sided now with Mari's parents.

A clash now unavoidable. Seems MariKanan often fought in the past, but always reconciled. Would they reconcile again? And would this make Kanan finally join Aq's? Only then Dia could continue her rescue mission...

But this meant that Kanan would have to manage to quickly (i.e. instantly) heal from a "maximum-size-crack" caused by the clash (and slap as it turned out. Another Sunrise trope: Gundam's "Brightslap" now a "Shineslap", however now an entirely different thing).

And Yoshiko's crisis shows us how risky this chessmove by Dia rly was...

And so Yoshiko's arc and plot points prove once more the level of writing Studio Sunrise accomplished here - without any flashy shiny scifi, special effects, gore etc.

But they took advantage of that and turned the unsettling plot twists even into "surprise attacks".

One of several reasons I call Love Live "the new Sailor Moon": Many people still laugh at it, and many are then flabbergasted by the dark and tearful plot twists and the vast cosmos, literally galactic in scale.

And LL accomplishes all that (almost) without any magic.

Last not least the famous Anko story: Anko the name of a Sunrise employee's dog who passed away during S1. His bosses promised to immortalize Anko in the next season - and kept their promise...

Not so common in the showbiz. KyoAni's called the exception here, but with LLS Sunrise achieved even this.

LL in its absolute prime imo, and I'm curious whether "Bluebird" (refering to the awakening paper plane in Rainbow that became this "blue bird") will be able to follow into these giant footsteps.

(personality-database.com opinion)

A - ENTP: Cognitive extraversion isn't the same as "being an introvert" and Ne doms can be more introverted since Ne is a function about external ideas. If Yoshiko was an INTP, she would be more focused on logical accuracy but her focus is on exploring ideas which is Ne > Ti. Being socially awkward/anxious don't necessarilly means inferior Fe, and Yoshiko actually has a good use of Fe, since she always notices the social situations and enters in her persona to adapt and satisfy her Ne-Fe but is too anxious to keep it. Her inferior Si can be seem on her persona, which she knows that isn't a trustable social method but still does it because of dominant Ne creativity. If you have seen Steins;Gate compare her with Okabe Rintarou, they both act very similarly in the way they feed their Ne-Fe using personas which seems a very ENTP thing.

B - ENTP: HELLA NE
i would have said maybe XNFP and could understand why people would think so
but comparing her to other INFP chuunis like Fischl and Rika Takanashi, there's a part of her that seems much more embarassed about her obsession with the occult 🧐 Rather than being unbeknownst to other people finding it weird and going to the beat of her own drum, she tries to hide it very desperately from others. I think this is a high indicator of Fe. She also gives the effect of a 'tsundere' because of how untrue she can be about her real emotions (thus high Ti).

C - ENFP: hoping with the new anime coming out, love live sunshine will get more attention and yohane's page will finally get fixed. enneagram 3 does not suit yohane in the slightest. based on deceit and vanity, E3s tend to lose themselves into societal or external expectations of them. being of the image triad, they care most about how they are perceived. yohane fits neither of these descriptions, considering she doesn't even have a 3 fix in her tritype, i dont understand how the consensus even got this way. yohane never became a fallen angel to match the societal expectations of her. in fact, her reasoning for becoming one is much more 7-based, which ill explain soon. yohane struggles to conform to external standards of her ("acting normal" is a common struggle with her, she cant conform to how others want her to act without blurting out weird phrases, etc). 3s often find that they try to match what others want so often that they lose themselves in the process. meanwhile, yohane doesnt seem to struggle with this at all. rather, she struggles with matching what others want in the first place. i think for someone who struggles so much with deceit, a core tenet of E3, cannot possibly be a 3 in the first place.

meanwhile, a 7, of the head triad, is more focused on how to deal with fear. yohane describes her reasoning for becoming a fallen angel was as a way to explain her bad luck. 7s often reframe things in a more positive light in order to not face consequences of their actions in the worst case, or just trying to avoid negativity in more healthy cases. yohane definitely showcases this a lot, her entire idea of being a fallen angel was to reframe her terrible life experiences into something positive, giving it meaning, and to explain away her suffering. the sx7 variant is the most head-in-the-clouds, imaginative, and creative subtype. this matches yohane, as her explanations for why she has such bad luck are so outlandish and bizarre, and often lives in the world of the imaginary in her own head as a way to escape from the harsh reality of the real world.

overall, definite sx749. hope this helps convince some people. or maybe goads some people into actually explaining why she's a 3. either way, id love to hear it!