
name        : You Watanabe
kanji       : 渡辺 曜
color       : #66c0ff
mbti        : ESFP(153), ESFJ(12)

(idol.st)
background:
She is a second year and a classmate of Chika Takami, who is her childhood friend along with Kanan Matsuura. Her father captains a ferry and she would like to have his job someday. Her catchphrase is "Yousoro!" (ヨーソロー！ lit. Aye Aye!), on which she salutes like a sailor. This is often accompanied by the phrase "Zensoku zenshin!" (全速前進！ Full speed ahead!). She also has a cousin named Tsuki Watanabe, who lived in Italy.

In the first episode, on a trip to Tokyo with Chika, the two learned about school idols and the Love Live! tournament after seeing a screen with school idols at the Akiba Dome, including µ's. After Chika becomes fascinated with the idea of school idols, You follows her into opening a school idol club of their own at their high school.

personality:
You is an energetic, tomboyish and positive girl with an outlook of focusing on her goals, which can sometimes cause her to take action without thinking things over first. Her positive attitude also makes her one of the more charismatic members of the group. Since she would like to have her father's job as the captain of a ferry, she tends to salute when she says her catchphrase "Yousoro!", often in the place of "hello" and "good-bye".

You loves the friendship she has forged with Chika over the years, so she slowly grew jealous of Riko Sakurauchi's friendship with Chika when she invites her to join Aqours. This is hinted in Season 1 Episode 10, and is expanded upon in Season 1 Episode 11 when the members of Aqours find out the group originally consisted of her and Chika, rather than Chika and Riko. After Mari Ohara confronts her on it, You expresses her feelings to her best friend, and stops being jealous of Riko.

(namu.wiki)

introduction:
We are setting sail for Love Live! right now! Salute!! I am Watanabe You, number 28, Class 2-1,

Uranohoshi Girls' High School
! My specialties are high diving and weather forecasting! My signature move is the reverse somersault.[17] Hugging type[18] Three and a half laps!! That's all!! ......This isn't enough, and I don't have anything else to say now─. What should I do? Maybe being an idol just isn't for me after all. Hmm, and my daily routine is muscle training and running. Following in the footsteps of my respected father, I want to become a ferry captain in the future! Ugh, is this really okay? It doesn't feel like an idol's self-introduction at all, but well, I guess it's fine! Now that I've tried it, singing and dancing were surprisingly good, and team play is fun too♪ So, Watanabe You is now setting sail for Love Live! Launch!! Salute!!!

(wikipedia)
You is an energetic second-year student who is Chika's childhood friend. She also aims to become a ship captain one day, just like her father.[5] Her catchphrase is "Yōsorō!" (ヨーソロー!; (Keep her) steady!),[6] also known as "Aye-aye!" in the English dub. She loves uniforms, whether they are idol costumes or work-related uniforms like police or shrine maiden outfits. Due to this, she is the main costume coordinator of the group.

(reddit opinion)

A: You's a bit of an interesting one to me. I like her as a person, she's funny and has a great personality, and is an immensely good friend to Chika. I think it gets understated a lot, You put her national-grade diving skills on hold to help Chika find herself. That's incredible friendship.

But I kinda feel like the writers didn't know what to do with her? Like despite her really great character design I don't actually remember her growing much. She's already athletic, her singing voice is great, she has her uniform-obsessed style and knows what she wants-- there wasn't much room for You to grow. Sure, she gets hurt at Chika's distance (and rightfully so), but that sort of felt like Chika's problem to me, not You's. Mari had to talk her into being more honest, sure, and that was a really cool parallel with Mari's own regrets, but at the end of the day You's jealousy felt completely justified to me. If you can even call it jealousy; I never got the impression she viewed Riko any bit negatively.

All this to say, I think the writers were a bit caught off-guard when she became one of Aqours' most popular characters by far. Even by S2 I think you could kind of see them scrambling to do something with her, like being volunteered to roll for Aqours at the start of the season only for Yohane to barge in. I sometimes wonder if that was always meant to be Yohane and they suddenly remembered You existed and half-put her in the scene. And in the movie we got Tsuki who's pretty much You 2 lol, and the whole "does You have a boyfrieeeend?" nothing-plot that came with that.

It's a bit of a shame, really. I'd love to see more of You, and I think there's great avenues to explore her more. I do think she gets on well with Riko, but we never see that happen out of Chika-- what about a You-Riko episode? She's in a subunit with Chika and Ruby, what about helping Ruby come out of herself? I think subunit episodes would have worked in Sunshine way better than they did in Nijigasaki, I feel Aqours kind of lacks a group cohesion at times (can you imagine Kanan and Yohane hanging out?), but I digress.

All in all, I think You is a great character with a lot of missing potential. Her solo songs are also great, Totsuzen GIRL is an amazing summer song and perfectly fits her nautical summer vibe.

B: Yousoro!

You is one of the characters that grew on me the most out of everyone in Aqours. It’s not as though I didn’t like her at first, but as time passed I really, really, got to understand her character a lot more, and now she’s one of my favorites.

Watanabe You reminds me of Kotori in some ways. She has a lot of big emotions, but doesn’t always know how to express them. Her journey in Season 1 of Sunshine is a lot about understanding herself, and her growing relationships with the rest of Aqours, although to be fair a lot of it is focused around Chika.

A lot of You’s development happens either because of, or for Chika. She wants to support Chika in being a school idol, and ends up becoming one with her. Of course, she ends up having to reconcile with what it means to be a school idol, whether that’s for Chika, or for herself, and what exactly are her feelings.

This culminates in perhaps one of the best episodes in the franchise, with You, Chika and Riko all working out their feelings, and ending with OYNHH.

You’s relationship with Chika, how it subverts the “childhood friend” archetype while also being really complex and well-written, is really important, but I’ll talk a bit more about some other key relationships she has. Like any girl in a love triangle, You felt some jealousy towards Riko, but because of that, she shut herself off and didn’t try and talk to her. Thankfully, Riko was able to talk to You, and when she heard how she really admired her, it caused all of those negative feelings to go away.

It’s a really sweet moment, and I think that the two of them became very good friends after that. I also love how Mari acts like a big sister to You. I’ll talk about it a bit more in her character discussion, but she understood You and was able to help her identify her feelings.

I don’t think You gets enough credit for also being largely responsible for doing the costuming for Aqours. I think Ruby might help out with it, but I don’t quite remember. In either case, You does a phenomenal job. Just look at WBNW!

In GNY, it’s also quite funny to see her go from a diver to a flying mailman.

Before I close, I’d just like to say that while I used to be more into ChikaRiko, I very much have fallen in love with ChikaYou. I highly recommend checking out Kanbayashi Makoto or Fukutarou’s work. It’s very very very good.

TLDR: 171/10 for the Sailor Girl. ShukaShu is always great (also strong!), and has a really powerful voice. ChikaYou legendary Z-tier ship. Zensoku Zenshin!

C: 
制服!

You is such a likeable character, my second favourite behind Riko, really close behind, she has such a great and energetic personality, and honestly, her moments were what caught me the most when I first watched Sunshine which I wasn’t really interested into (until OYHNN and S2).

You is definitely my favourite out of the best friend archetypes, she was really talented in diving, and definitely had a great path ahead of her, but even so she decided to follow Chika in an unknown path to her and support her all the way, just because she wanted to do something with her. That takes no small amount of courage, and instantly got me interested into her. Even if she had no knowledge about school idols, she definitely had useful assets for it, she was athletic which was helpful for being the initial choreographer and her obsession with uniform made her a great designer, WBNW outfits are amazing, I love My 舞 Tonight’s outfit and the ones of Miriam Ticket were great too.

She is a really enjoyable character for me, her Yousoro stuck quickly with me despite my initial lack of interest in Aqours and her obsession for uniforms was definitely hilarious, like girl has a powerful smell sense for them is willing to sacrifice herself to grab one, the second floor of the school might not be much, but jumping from that building in Venezia was really risky, and the fact that her cousin was identical to her in those regards got some chuckles out of me, wonder who got that first? She’s also really strong, her throwing Mari with a key reminded me how strong athletes can be. I also find really funny and cute her seal outfit during S2, she truly fits the role.

Her relationship with Chika needs no introduction, she’s such a loyal friend to Chika that she was willing to dive into an unknown club just to be able to do something with Chika, an even when that slowly drifted her away from Chika due to her spending time with Riko, her justified jealousy was never negative (although technically her loss of confidence and self esteem could be seen so). Riko talking to her fixing that gap was a remarkable moment, and the friendship that came out of it was really sweet, I like the daaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaisuki that came out of You during the end of S2, it definitely was a bittersweet moment that I will cherish, my 2 favourite Sunshine characters being wholesome. Mari also makes an amazing impact on her, Mari being able to relate to the fact of You drifting away from her best friend is something she experienced after travelling overseas after all. ** Also casual You with glasses is something cute**.

Unfortunately, as OP and Isaac already stated, she lacks a lot of potential development and is usually, and unfortunately tied with Chika, in which while it makes sense, since she started doing this because of her, it’s a pity as she has such a great potential, but they simply just let her aside being as she is. Even so, she had enough to earn my respect. Zensoku Zenshin, YOUSORO!

I also love how in GNY she became a mail carrier flyer, like diving in the water was not enough for her so she has to go higher by skydiving. Her animations in Blaze in the Deepblue was also hilarious, I laughed when Yohane rescued her and stated she was being really energetic for a princess in distress. And in Numazu in the Mirage, (game boss spoiler) her ||evil form being a pirate that raps and skydive to rob is peak,|| it embodies her love for sailing with her flying aspect of GNY perfectly.

Overall awesome character, my favourite song of her is Paradise Chime, such a good vibe, ChikaYou definitely best friendship in the series for me and Shuka definitely did an excellent job, her voice is so beautiful and I love her part during the Ryouran collab, she definitely aced it in my favourite Nijigasaki song.

And don’t worry OP, life comes first, you don’t need to swear over not being to fit your schedule, while I did find it weird that last week there was no discussion I thought and respected that you might have been busy, it’s okay to take a break if needed sometimes.

D: 
Chika the "magnetic hero", "manic pixie dream girl", "lancer" and "decoy protagonist" (with Mari the true yet "defective" protag).

But no Chika without her main supporter and helper You.

The problem: Their ship's always been in troubled waters, pun intended.

Chika always longed for leaving her "normal (unspecial) moster" situation, but she never could fully relate to and connect with You's sport's lifestyle. And so she never accompanied You into a sport's club.

You also never would grab Chika's arm and just drag her into the newest sport club, like Rin did with Kayo.

You the rather "silent sufferer" like Ayumu - who however would frequently and reliably get her outbreaks and meltdowns. You's meltdowns would remain inside You though and cause her darkest hours like in the "Yousoro My Fried!" ep...

Because that's another key aspect in ChikaYou's ship: Chika with her flings, and You with her clinging. Chika escaping via cheating, You reacting via clinging...

The clinger-cheater-vicious-circle that can be tracked back to Sailor UraNeptune's Puppetmaster special. LL following into Sailor Moon's footsteps in many ways, unironically.

Chika finds a soulmate in Riko who would soon accompany her into her newly founded idol club. Riko who would make ir outa her slump only with the help of someone like Chika, and who also can provide some crucial help with her exceptional musical talent (very similar to yet very different from Maki).

And there's no alternative to Riko. So You's stuck and can't escape...

...and then, the evening before Ura's farewell: Chika would all of the sudden return to You.

Rly all of the sudden? Or has Chika experienced Riko's rather toxic side that Riko would soon reveal to Yoshiko then: Ordering her to return to the hotel in Hakodate with a quite toxic LINE-animoji, and "Silent Cherry Blossom Nightmare"...?

At the same time it seems Chika isn't able to prove that she's now gonna be honest with You. Literally the same ping pong game like between AyuYuu...?

Also Yoshiko would soon leave Riko and end the RiHane ship.

And so after the second paper plane scene in Rainbow YouHane would be the ones holding hands. (RubyMaru the only ones "triangle-free", so Ruby becoming the new Aq's leader and spokesperson to the former Ura students at Tsuki's school, thus also announcing Next Sparkling their welcome song there).

But like Ayumu You said to her partner: "Let's sta together till we're old!" - quite a lot of clinging. Will Yoshiko accept this? Or will You have to "turn down the knob" a bit...?

A S3 of LLS could develop so many open arcs and plot points...

E: She's very likable. Definitely the kind of friend I would love to have! She's just very chill and a lot of fun. But while she's usually chill, she struggles with expressing her more negative emotions and being open about them.

I really wish that the more insecure side of her and the theme of jealousy would have been explored a little more. I definitely would have liked if she got a little bit more time to develop as an character. But that honestly goes for almost every girl. As much as I love Chika, I do have to admit that the character arcs of the other girls got cut short to focus more on hers. I think Sunshine could have been even better if it had 3 seasons instead of 2. But anyway...

You Watanabe still managed to make a very good impression on me even with her lack of screen time. And I really like that she managed to become good friends with Riko despite the jealousy she initially felt at her and Chika's relationship. She has a simple, but super cute design and I also just really love her voice! And "Yousoro" is just the cutest catchphrase ever in my humble opinion!

F:  Despite the emotional and sentimental attachment I have with Nico, You has overtaken her and become my favorite LL character. I don't normally even have a thing for tomboys, but You is a rare "feminine tomboy" who breaks the tomboy mold.. in a sense.

You is like the person I'd want to be if I were a girl. But even so, her sheer loyalty is one of her biggest selling points, as it's one of my most valued traits in a person. Likewise, when You's big jealousy arc hit, I could relate to it because I had dealt with similar issues with one of my friends on a frequent basis.

But beyond all that, she's just really darn pretty, she's energetic, she's... probably the bravest character in the series (for better or worse) and she looks really cute in all of the many different swimsuits she's worn throughout her existence as an idol.~

Also GnY You is perfect too, even if I've only been able to experience that version of her through Numazu in the Mirage...

(personality-database.com opinion)

A: i  feel like most of the 6w7 votes are because of her behaviour in S1E11, and maybe this is biased but as a 9w1 who previously mistyped as 6w7 due to similar traits i want to share my thoughts on her enneagram!

a lot of 6's try to be supportive at all times because they need a stable support system to feel safe. they're considered to be the enneatype most concerned about feeling secure which is probably why they have so many doubts and need to give (or receive)
so much reassurance. i can definitely see why people think you is a 6 core (i did too at first!) because her playful nature and loyalty towards chika as well as her worries about being replaced seem very fitting for a 6w7.

however what she really fears is losing her close relationship with chika and being left behind, which aligns more with the core fear of enneagram 9 in my eyes. i find that the online descriptions for the core desires/fears of each type can be kind of.. vague at times? but a fear of loss or separation can include drifting away from others, 9's need to stay connected to other people in order to feel at ease. additionally, as others have said you is pretty peaceful most of the time and not so reactive. if you compare her attitude to riko who is a fairly obvious 6 core she's much more lowkey about her anxieties and almost minimizes them

i also questioned 2w1 for her at one point but i think 9w1 fits best overall. ^^

B: I'm seconding what others are saying for her enneagram.

When You discusses with Mari about her feelings about Chika, she seems to act quite calmly about it even though it’s clearly bothering her. A core 6 would react quite quickly to conflict because they want to get rid of whatever is threatening their security, however You does not do this. She seems to react quite neutrally to conflict, a trait that 9’s have. She puts herself in the background quite a lot, even saying that people have told her she picks things up quite easily and "thought that if [she] was around it might be hard" for Chika. My last point would be that if she was a core 6 I feel like she'd act a lot more like Ayumu Uehara (the anime version) in that she would be more dependent on Chika for support and would be a lot more 'reactive' I suppose

Sorry if my argument may not be too strong or if it doesn’t make sense since I'm still trying to understand the enneagram but these are my thoughts. I'm happy to hear arguments for core 6 or any other enneagram type though :D

C: i think people vote her fe-dom because she dropped her own hobbies to join aqours with chika, but she did not do this to please her.

in you's focus episode, she said that's she's always wanted to do something special with chika, but her hobbies came in the way. she is doing it because it's some she herself wants to do, not just to make chika happy.

i'm not ruling out her being an fe-user, but i don't think that what i mentioned above would be a good argument for that. i've also concidered ESTP because of SeFe but im not sure if i see her being ti-aux.

her se is obvious, she is very in tune with her surroundings and love live always highlights her spontaneousity and occasionally impulsivity.